Hey, folks. It’s going to be quick because I got to be downstairs, but thank you very much for being here. This morning, the deal that I first put forward last May for the Middle East has finally come to fruition. The ceasefire has gone into effect in Gaza, and today, we’re seeing hostages being released — three Israeli women, held against their will in the dark tunnels for 470 days. Four more women will be released in seven days; three additional hostages every seven days thereafter, including at least two American citizens, in this first phase. We pray for them and their families for their — their — going to be a long recovery ahead. By the 16th day of the deal, talks will begin in the second phase. This phase includes the release of Israeli soldiers and a permanent end to the war without Hama- — without Hamas in power or able to th- — threaten Israel. Hundreds of trucks are entering Gaza as I speak. They’re carrying assistance for civilians, who have suffered enormously from the war that Hamas started on October 7th, 2023, nearly 15 months ago. Today alone we anticipate several hundred trucks will enter the Gaza Strip as I’m — probably as I’m speaking. And after so much pain, destruction, and loss of life, today, the guns in Gaza have gone silent. This was the deal that I outlined for the world back on May 31st — many of you covered it at the time. I was endor- — I — it was endorsed overwhelmingly by folks around the world, including the U.N. Security Council unanimously endorsed the deal. And developed a — in coordination with — I developed it in coordination with Egypt, Qatar, and Israel. I’ve worked in foreign policy for decades, and this is one of the toughest negotiations I’ve been part of. Many of you who’ve followed these negotiations will attest that the road to this deal has been not easy at all and a long road. But we’ve reached the point today because of the pressure Israel built on Hamas, backed by the United States. Some said my policy of a firm support for Israel is relentlessly pursuing diplomacy risked drawing America into a wider war in the region. I listened to those voices, many of whom I respected a great deal. But I concluded abandoning the course I was on would not have led us to the ceasefire we’re seeing today, but instead, it would have risked the wider war in the region that so many feared. Now the region has been fundamentally transformed. Hamas’s long-time leader, Sinwar, is dead. Hamas sponsors in the Middle East have been badly weakened by Israel, backed by the United States. Hezbollah, one of Hamas’s biggest backers, was significantly weakened on the battlefield and its leadership was destroyed. Even as we worked for diplomatic solutions in Lebanon, we provided ongoing assistance and support to Israel’s military campaign against Hezbollah, including its efforts to take out the terror inf- — the terror infrastructure along the border between Israel a- — and Lebanon. Israel’s campaign was extens- — extremely successful. So much so that by the end of November, the United States had brokered a ceasefire in Lebanon. Hezbollah did what it said it would never do: It cut its — its — cut its deal and abandoned Hamas. And today, Lebanon — in Lebanon, there’s finally a new president and prime minister, both of whom support a sovereign Lebanon without Hezbollah ruling the show — running the show or playing any part in it. The Assad regime next door in Syria is gone, removing Iran’s ready access to Lebanon. Iran is in the weakest position in decades after the U.S. military helped defend Israel from Iranian missiles and supported Israel’s military response inside Iran. Just look across the region. In Lebanon, there’s an opportunity for a future free from the grip of Hezbollah. In Syria, a future free from the Assad — the tyranny of Assad. For the Palestinian people, a credible path to a state of their own. And for the f- — for the region — and the future of normalization and integration of Israel with all its Arab neighbors, including Saudi Arabia, with whom I’ve spoken with. You know, we’ve had many difficult days since Hamas began this terrible war. We’ve encountered roadblocks and setbacks, but we haven’t given up. And a special thanks to my team, particularly Brett McGurk, who many of you know, who spent weeks and months working nonstop to reach this deal, many of — many of those weeks and months out of the — out of the country. Today’s ceasefire in Gaza and the release of hostages is a result of a principled and effective policy that we pre- — I presided over for months. And we got it — we got here without a wider war in the Middle East many predicted. And now it falls on the next administration to help iml- — implement this deal. I was pleased to have our teams speak as one voice in the final days. It was both necessary and effective, and unprecedented. But success is going to require persistence and continuing support for our friends in the region and the belief in diplomacy backed by deterrence. So, as we reflect on the news from Gaza today, we also remember all the victims of this war. They were — we are mindful — we are mindful that the pursuit of a lasting peace, while never easy or quick, must always be our calling. So, thank you all for listening. May God bless you all. And may God protect our troops. I’m looking forward to this deal being fully implemented. And I’m sorry I’m not going to take any questions now because I’m waiting — there’s a whole congregation waiting for me, and I’m sure the remainder of the day I’ll have an opportunity to speak with you. Thank you very much. 
Good afternoon. And it’s a very good afternoon, because at long last, I can announce a ceasefire and a hostage deal has been reached between Israel and Hamas. For more than 15 months of conflict that began with Hezbollah’s brutal massacre on October the 7th; more than 15 months of terror for the hostages, their families, the Israeli people; and more than 15 months of suffering by the innocent people of Gaza, fighting in Gaza will stop and soon the hostages will return home to their families. The elements of this deal were what I laid out in detail this past May, which was embraced by countries around the world and endorsed overwhelmingly by the U.N. Security Council. The deal is structured in three phases. Phase one will last six weeks. It includes a full and complete ceasefire, a withdrawal of Israeli forces from all the populated areas of Gaza, and — and the release of a number of hostages held by Hamas, including women and elderly and the wounded. And I’m proud to say Americans will be part of that hostage release in phase one as well. And the vice president and I cannot wait to welcome them home. In exchange, Israel will release hundreds of Palestinian prisoners. And during phase one, the Palestinians can also return to their neighborhoods in all the areas of Gaza, and the surge of humanitarian assistance into Gaza will begin, and the innocent people can have a greater access to these vital supplies. You know, during the next six weeks, Israel will negotiate the necessary arrangements to get phase two, which is a permanent end of the war. Let me say that again: a permanent end of the war. There are a number of details to negotiate to move from phase one to phase two, but the plan says if negotiations take longer than six weeks, the ceasefire will continue, as long as the negotiations continue. I’ve spoken to the amir of Kuwait and the president of Egypt, and we have pledged to make sure the negotiations will keep moving forward for as long as it takes. Then, when phase two begins, there will be an exchange of — for a release of the remaining living hostages, including male soldiers, and all remaining Israeli forces will be withdrawn from Gaza and the temporary ceasefire will become permanent. And finally, phase three. Any final remains of hostages who have been killed will be returned to their families and a major reconstruction plan for Gaza will begin. This — this is the ceasefire agreement I introduced last spring. Today, Hamas and Israel have agreed to that ceasefire agreement and the whole — ending the war. You know, those of you have followed the negotiations can attest, the road to this deal has not been easy. I’ve worked in foreign policy for decades. This is one of the toughest negotiations I’ve ever experienced. And we reached this point because — because of the pressure that Israel built on Hamas, backed by the United States. Hamas’s longtime leader, Sinwar, was killed. Hamas’s strongest supporter, Iran, launched attacks in Israel. And those attacks failed after my administration organized a coalition of nations to stop them. And after I ordered the U.S. ships and planes to come to Israel’s defense, we also shaped Israel’s strong and calibrated response, destroying Iran’s air defenses but avoiding an escalatory cycle of an all-out war. The United States also organized a coalition of 20 countries to stand up to attacks by the Houthis, including their missile attacks in Israel. Then Hezbollah, another of Hamas’s strongest backers, was significantly weakened on the battlefield and its leadership was destroyed. With our support, Israel s- — Israel negotiated a ceasefire with them. And after that, Lebanon finally elected a new president who’s not — who’s not beholden to Hezbollah, and he can begin a new chapter for the Lebanese people. All told, these developments in the region, which the United States helped to shape, changed the equation. And so, now the terror network that once protected and sustained Hamas is far weaker. Iran is weaker. Iran is weaker than it’s been in decades. Hezbollah is badly degraded. And after more than 15 months of war, Hamas’s senior leaders are dead, thousands of Hamas fighters are dead, and the military formations have been destroyed. With nowhere to turn, Hamas finally agreed to releasing hostages. You know, there was no other way for this war to end than with a hostage deal, and I’m deeply satisfied this day has come — finally come for the sake of the people of Israel and the families waiting in agony and for the sake of the innocent people in Gaza who suffered unimaginable devastation because of the war. The Palestinian people have gone through hell. Too many innocent people have died. Too many communities have been destroyed. In this deal, the people of Gaza can finally recover and rebuild. They can look to a future without Hamas in power. You know, the Bible says, “Blessed are the peacemakers.” Many peacemakers helped make this deal happen, including an extraordinary team of American diplomats who have worked nonstop for months to get this done. Secretary Blinken led the effort. Secretary Jake Sullivan — not — National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan, Bill Burns, Jon Finer, Brett McGurk, Amos Hochstein, and the vice president worked relentlessly as we worked to deliver this deal. I’d also note this deal was developed and negotiated under my administration, but its terms will be implemented, for the most part, by the next administration. In these past few days, we’ve been speaking as one team. This has been time of real turmoil in the Middle East, but as I prepare to leave office, our friends are strong, our enemies are weak, and there’s a genuine opportunities for a new future. In Lebanon, there’s an opportunity for a future free from the grip of Hezbollah; in Syria, a future free from the tyranny of Assad; and for the Palestinian people, a credible — a credible pathway to a state of their own; and for the region, a future of normalization, integration of Israel and all its Arab neighbors, including Saudi Arabia. At the G20 in Delhi in September ’23, I rallied key countries behind a vision of an economic corridor from India across the Middle East to Europe. That vision can now become a reality. There are risks as well, including ISIS and Iran, even in a badly weakened state, but — but we’re handing off the — to the next team a real opportunity for a better future for the Middle East. I hope they will take it. Let me close with this. My f- — my friend for years in the United States Senate, former Senator George Mitchell, who did so much to forge peace in Northern Ireland, once said di- — about diplomacy — said it is a “700 days of failure and 1 day of success.” “Seven hundred days of failure and one day of success.” Well, we’ve had many difficult days since Hamas began its terrible war. We’ve encountered roadblocks and setbacks, but we’ve not given up. And now, after more than 40- — 400 days of struggle, a day of success has arrived. God bless all the hostages and their families. May God protect the troops of all those who work for peace.
Thank you. Thank you, thank you, thank you. Thank you. Thank you, thank you. Please. Thank you. Thank you, thank you, thank you. It’s good to be back at the State Department. Tony, if I may start by saying this, you’re one of the finest men I’ve ever known in any undertaking for one important reason: You have –- — you’re not only brilliant, you have incredible character. You have character. You have more integrity than almost anybody I know. Thank you for always sticking with me. Appreciate it. Folks, I’m grateful for his counsel and his friendship as well, but I also want to thank the members of my Cabinet and the members of the Congress who are today. And to all — all our diplomats and development experts, service members, and intelligence professionals: Many of the achievements we’re going to discuss today were — are the result of your hard work. And that’s not hyperbole. It’s true. Thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you for your extraordinary service. You know, I come here to the State Department to report on the Ameri- — to the American people on the progress we’ve made in the last four years in our foreign policy in our presidency. I’ve said many times: We’re at an inflection point. The post-Cold War period is over. A new era has begun. In these four years, we faced crises that — and we’ve been tested. We’ve come through those tests stronger, in my view, than we entered those tests. This is a fierce competition underway — the future of the global economy, technology, human values, and so much else. Right now, in my view, thanks to our administration, the United States is winning the worldwide competition. Compared to four years ago, America is stronger, our alliances are stronger, our adversaries and competitors are weaker, and we have not gone to war to make these things happen. During my presidency, I’ve increased America’s power in every dimension. We’ve increased our diplomatic power, creating more allies the United States has ever had in the history of our nation. We’ve increased our military power, making the most significant investments in the Defense Industrial Base in decades. We’ve increased the technology power, taking the lead on artificial intelligence and other technologies of the future. And we’ve increased the economic power, building the most dynamic economy in the world from the bottom up and the middle out, not the top down. In short, Kamala and I took office. Our nation had become stronger at home — are stronger in the world. And now, America is more capable and, I would argue, better prepared than we’ve been in a long, long time. While our competitors and adversaries are facing stiff headwinds, we have the wind at our back because of all of you. This is what we’re heading into. And over to the next administration, that’s what we’re handing it to. Today, I want to lay out what we’ve done and the opportunities we’ve created for America and those opportunities going forward. Today, I can report to the American people: Our sources of national power are far stronger than they were when we took office. Our economy is booming, although there is more work to do. Our technologies, from artificial intelligence to biotech, quantum, and — to advanced semiconductors are the envy of the world. And we have made the most significant investments in America and the American workers since the New Deal to rebuild our roads and bridges, our ports and airports, clean water systems, affordable high-speed Internet, and so much more; to build American manufacturing; to make advanced semiconductors, which we invented here at home. And we made the largest investment in climate and clean energy ever, anywhere on Earth in the history of the world, spurring nearly $500 billion in private-sector investment. We’ve also significantly strengthened the defense industrial base, investing almost $1.3 trillion in procurement and research and development. In real dollars, that’s more than America did in any four-year period during the Cold War. This is going to ensure that we’re fully equipped to fight and win wars, which is also the best way to deter wars in the first place. Today, I can report to the American people: Our alliances are stronger than they’ve been in decades. NATO is more capable than it’s ever been. And many more of our Allies are paying their fair share. Before I took office, nine NATO Allies were spending 2 percent of their GDP on defense. Now 23 are spending 2 percent. And look at the Indo-Pacific. We’ve made partnerships stronger and created new partnerships to challenge China’s aggressive behavior and to rebalance power in the region. We did what few thought was possible: to build the first-ever trilateral partnership between the United States, Japan, and South Korea and then another among the United States, Japan, and the Philippines, drawing closer our Pacific allies to defend our shared security and prosperity. We brokered a defense pact known as AUKUS among the United States, Australia, and the United Kingdom, connecting the Atlantic and Pacific allies as only America is able to do. And we’ve taken the Quad to the next level. The United States, Japan, Austria — Australia, and India. When we were — had that first meeting, I was dumbfounded when they all called and said, “Can we do this at your house?” You think I’m kidding. My wife said, “No problem.” It was during the U.N. meeting, and we thought we were going to do it in New York, but they wanted to do it in Delaware. I said, “Why?” They said, “We can know — then people will know we’re really friends.” Our democracies, with vibrant ec- — economies, working closely — security, supply chains, technology, and so much more. In the Red Sea, we brought together more than 20 countries for civil- — to protect civilian ships from attack by the Houthis, defending freedom of navigation in one of the world’s busiest waterways. And we have strengthened partnerships all across the Americas, defending democracy and targeting corruption, addressing migration, increasing prosperity, and protecting Amazon rainforest, which captures billions of tons — billions of tons of carbon from the atmosphere every year. Overall, we’ve reinvigorated people’s faith in the United States as a true, true partner. Today, I can report to the American people: Our adversaries are weaker than they were when we came into this job four years ago. Just consider Russia. When Putin invaded Ukraine, he thought he’d conquer Kyiv in a matter of days. But the truth is: Since that war began, I’m the only one that’s stood in the center of Kyiv, not him. Putin never has. Think about it. It was a long train ride, but I’m the only commander in chief to visit a war zone not controlled by U.S. forces. We helped the Ukrainians stop Putin. And now, nearly thr- — three years later, Putin has failed to achieve any of his strategic objectives. He has failed thus far to subjugate Ukraine; failed to break the — break the unity of NATO; and failed to make large territorial gains. But there’s more to do. We can’t walk away. We rallied 50 nations to stand with Ukraine. Not just in Europe but the first — for the first time in Asia as well, because those countries in Asia know what happens in Ukraine matters to them as well. We delivered air interceptors, massive numbers of munitions; enacted relentless, unprecedented sanctions to keep Ukraine in the fight. And now Russia is struggling to replace what they are losing on the battlefield in terms of military equipment and fighters, and the ruble is under enormous pressure. As I saw it, when Putin launched his invasion, I had two jobs: one, to rally the world to defend Ukraine, and the other is to avoid war between two nuclear powers. We did both those things. And today, Ukraine is still free, independent country with the potential — the potential for a bright future. And we laid the foundation for the next administration so they can protect the bright future of the Ukrainian people. And now, look at Iran. Did you ever think we would be where we are with Iran at this moment? After those despicable attacks by Hamas on October the 7th, Iran directly attacked Israel twice with hundreds of ballistic missiles and drones. And twice they failed because the United States organized a coalition of countries to stop them and ordered U.S. aircraft to come to the defense of Israel. Now Iran’s air defenses are in shambles. Their main proxy, Hezbollah, is badly wounded. And as we tested Iran’s willingness to revive the nuclear deal, we kept the pressure with sanctions. Now Iran’s economy is in desperate straits. All told, Iran is weaker than it’s been in decades. And if you want more evidence that we’ve seriously weakened Iran and Russia, just take a look at Syria. President Assad was both countries’ closest ally in the Middle East. Neither — neither could keep him in power. Quite frankly, neither really tried very hard. Now, I cannot claim credit for every factor that led to Iran and Russia growing weaker in the past four years. They did plenty of damage all by themselves. But Israel did plenty of damage to Iran and its proxies. But there’s no question our actions contributed significantly. And now, major authoritarian states are aligning more closely with one another — Iran, Russia, China, North Korea. But that’s more out of weakness than out of strength. So as the new administration begins, the United States is in a fundamentally stronger position with respect to these countries than we were four years ago. Today, I can report to the American people: We’re in a better strategic position in the long-term competition with China than we were when I took office. You all recall many experts believed — were predicting it was inevitable that China’s economy would surpass ours. According to many predictions, that would happen by the year 2030 or shortly thereafter. But we in this room said, “No. If we make the investments in ourselves, if we protect our workers and technologies, that will not happen.” Now, according to the latest predictions on China’s current course, they will never surpass us. Period. I met one on one with President Xi in consequential summits. He and I have always been direct and straightforward with each other. I made it clear we expect China and everyone to abide by the international rules. And so, we stood up against unfair trade practices, taking action when China dumped subsidized goods — incredibly subsidized — on our markets to undercut our workers. We imposed target tariffs on critical sectors like cars, steel, and semiconductors, rather than across-the-board tariffs. We imposed historic export controls on investments restrictions to ensure that China cannot — cannot use the most advanced technology and sensive data — and sens- — sensitive data against us. And critically, we enlisted our allies and partners to join us, building more convergence among our allies on a shared approach to China than ever existed and showing that it’s more effective to deal with China alongside of partners, rather than going it alone. But even while we compete vigorously, we’ve managed our relationship with China responsibly so it’s never tipped over into conflict. We’ve created lines of communication between President Xi and myself and between the leaders of our militaries to avoid misunderstanding. We found ways to work with each other to address climate change, to reduce the flow of fentanyl into the United States — which, by the way, overdor- — overdose deaths are coming down across our nation. And in my administration, we’ve seized more fentanyl at our border in two years than the previous five years combined. Today, I can also report to the American people: We’re the first president in decades who is not leaving a war in Afghanistan to his successor. When we got bin Laden during the Obama-Biden administration, the primary objective of war had been accomplished, and I believed that going forward, the primary threat of al-Qaeda would no longer be emanating from Afghanistan but from elsewhere and so we did not need to station sizable number of American forces in Afghanistan. So, when I took office, I had a choice. Ultimately, I saw no reason to keep thousands of servicemen in Afghanistan. I think I had my schedule with me and I keep it on my — I don’t here. I don’t have it, but I keep it on the back of my card, the actual number of dead and wounded that occurred in our longest war, to remind myself. Keep spending hundreds of millions of dollars a day. We’re now longer doing that. In my view, it was time to end the war and bring our troops home, and we did. I commend the courage of all those who served in Afghanistan. We grieve all 2,461 Americans who made the ultimate sacrifice in the longest war in American history. And I grieve those brave service members whose lives were lost during the withdrawal. We also thank those inside and outside our government who have done so much to help thousands of Afghan families resettle in the United States. Remember, critics said if we ended the war, it would damage our alliances and it would create threats to our homeland from foreign-directed terrorism out of a safe haven in Afghanistan. Neither has occurred. Neither has occurred. And our alliances have stayed strong. We’ve used our over-the-horizon capabilities to strike in Afghanistan and elsewhere when we had to — for instance, eliminating Zawahiri, the leader of al-Qaeda, who helped orchestrate the September 11th attacks. And we did it without putting more American boots on the ground. And by ending the war, we’ve been able to focus our energy and resources on more urgent challenges. There is nothing — I can tell you from my conversations with both Xi and Putin — nothing our adversaries and competitors, like Russia and China, would have liked more than seeing us continue to be tied down in Afghanistan for another decade. For all those reasons, ending the war was the right thing to do, and I believe history will reflect that. And from the moment I entered office, I also worked to free as many Americans as possible being held hostage or wrongfully detained overseas. We brought home more than 75 Americans, by last count. And in some cases, it took months, even years, of effort, like the prisoner swap with Russia over the past summer, a feat of diplomacy v- — involving all — many of you and involving multiple countries who joined complex negotiations at our request — another example of the power of our alliances. If we did not have these relationships, those women and women would likely still be in prison. And finally, I can report to the American people that we’ve restored our leadership on a range of other generational priorities. When I took office, we were no longer part of the international climate agreement. We announced on day one that re- — we would join the Paris Accord — rejoin. And we’ve led by example; we’ve conserved hundreds of millions of acres — hundreds of millions of acres of land and water, more than any president in American history; making investments in clean energy and convincing other nations to join us. Thanks to our efforts, the world has reached the goal of investing $100 billion every year in public and private funds to reduce greenhouse emissions, to drive down the cost of clean energy, to help developing nations adapt to climate change. Our administration has launched a transformative initiative to build high-impact infrastructure in developing nations. It’s called PGI. You all know that better than anyone. This is our alternative to what China offers with its massive projects across Africa and beyond. But their approach features no workers’ rights, no environmental protections, unmanageable debt, shoddy construction — all in exchange for military access to ports and other exploitative purposes. By contrast, we’ve leveraged $600 billion and unleashed the private sector to build an infrastructure in order to grow economies and combat climate change. As an example, I was recently in Angola to see a major project being built with the help of American public funding, which brought in even more private investment. We’re building the first-ever transcontinental railroad across Africa that will significantly improve the economies of the region, will help farmers transport crops to new global markets, will transport critical minerals that would — that need — that are needed for electric vehicles and semiconductors. China used to control the supply chains and these materials, but not for long. Now, make no mistake: There are serious challenges that the United States must continue to deal with in Ukraine, in the Middle East, in the Indo-Pacific. We must keep the pressure on the Houthis, who are attacking ships in the Red Sea, launching missiles at Israel, and firing at American forces. We must deter North Korea as they rattle their saber and draw closer to Russia. And new challenges will certainly emerge in the months and years ahead. But even — but even so, it’s clear: My administration is leaving the next administration with a very strong hand to play. And we’re leaving them an America with more friends and stronger alliances, whose adversaries are weaker and under pressure; an America that once again is leading, uniting countries, setting the agenda, bringing others together behind our plans and visions; an America which is no longer at war, which has made historic investments in American workers, American energies, Am- — American factories, generating the strongest economy in the world, which is now in a much better position to win the future against any competitor. These wins are not partisan. They’re American. They benefit all Americans and reflect America’s endless capacity for leadership and reinvention. Look, folks, the United States should take full advantage of our diplomatic and geopolitical opportunities we’ve created to keep bringing countries together to deal with challenges posed by China; to make sure Putin war — Putin’s war ends in a just and lasting peace for Ukraine; and to capitalize on a new moment for a more stable, integrated Middle East. To do that, the next administration must make sure the fall of Assad does not lead to the resurgence of ISIS in Syria and across the region. It must carry forward the commitment that America will never, never allow Iran to acquire a nuclear weapon. And on the war between Israel and Hamas, we’re on the brink of a proposal that I laid out in detail months ago finally coming to fruition. I have learned in many years of public service to never, never, never, ever give up. So, I spoke to prime minister of Israel yesterday. I spoke to the amir of Qatar today. I look forward to speaking with President Sisi soon. We’re pressing hard to close this. The deal we have structured would free the hostages, halt the fighting, provide security to Israel, and allow us to significantly surge humanitarian assistance to the Palestinians, who have suffered terribly in this war that Hamas started. They’ve been through hell. So many innocent people have been killed. So many communities have been destroyed. The Palestinian people deserve peace and the right to determine their own futures. Israel deserves peace and real security. And the hostages and their families deserve to be reunited. And so, we’re working urgently to close this deal. And as we deal with immediate challenges, in my view, we have to look to the future. I urge the next administration to carry forward two issues that have been central to my presidency and which shape the future, in my view. On artificial intelligence, we are in the lead and we must stay in the lead. We must not offshore artificial intelligence, as we once did with computer chips and other critical technologies. AI has the power to reshorp — reshape economies, governments, national security, entire societies. And it must be the United States and our closest allies that lead the way to ensure people’s rights are respected, their safety is protected, and their data is secure. And likewise, the clean energy transition will race ahead in the years to come. I know in some incoming administration — some in the incoming administration are skeptical about the need for clean energy. They don’t even believe climate change is real. I think they come from a different century. They’re wrong. They are dead wrong. It’s the single greatest existential threat to humanity. And the clean energy transition is already happening. China is trying to dominate the clean energy, manufacturing critical minerals, supply chains. They want to capture the market of the future and create new dependencies. The United States must win that contest, and we will shape the global economy and the planet for decades to come. Let me close with this. Like many of you, I’ve dedicated a significant portion of my career to our nation’s foreign policy — as chair of the Foreign Relations Committee as a senator, as vice president for eight years, and now president of the United States. I put together one of the most competent foreign policy teams, I would argue, in American history, sitting in this room and before my eyes. Throughout my career, the world has gone — undergone tremendous change. But certain things have always held true. At our best, America leads not only by the example of our power but the power of our example. In the past four years, we’ve used that power not to go it alone but, instead, to bring countries together, to increase shared security and prosperity, to stand up to aggression, and to solve problems through diplomacy wherever possible; and to relentlessly defend democracy, civil rights, and human rights, because that’s who we are. That’s who we are. You’ve heard me say it many times before. We’re the only country on Earth founded on an idea. Every other country is founded on geography, religion, ethnicity, or some other unifying factor. But America was built on an idea — on an idea — literally, not figuratively. That idea was all women and men are created equal, the idea that has inspired the world for 250 years and counting. We’re always reaching to do better, always looking to the future, and, at our best, always seeking progress for our people and for people everywhere. It’s been the honor of my life to serve as your president. And today, I’m optimistic about our future — as optimistic as I’ve ever been. We just have to remember who in the hell we are. You’ve heard me say it many times. We’re the United States of America, for God’s sake. There is nothing, nothing, nothing beyond our capacity if we do it together and commit to it — nothing. So, thank you all for all you’ve done. I hope many of you are going to be staying in the next administration to keep this moving. May God bless you all. And may God protect our troops. Thank you, thank you, thank you. Thank you, from the bottom of my heart. Thank you. 2:51 P.M. EST
Good afternoon. A lot happening in the Middle East. After 13 years of civil war in Syria and more than half a century of brutal authoritarian rule by Bashar Assad and his father before him, rebel forces have forced Assad to resign his office and flee the country. We’re not sure where he is, but the- — there’s word that he’s in Moscow. At long last, the Assad regime has fallen. This regime brutalized and tortured and killed literally hundreds of thousands of innocent Syrians. A fall of the regime is a fundamental act of justice. It’s a moment of historic opportunity for the long-suffering people of Syria to build a better future for their proud country. It’s also a moment of risk and uncertainty. As we all turn to the question of what comes next, the United States will work with our partners and the stakeholders in Syria to help them seize an opportunity to manage the risks. You know, for years, the main backers of Assad have been Iran, Hezbollah, and Russia. But over the last week, their support collapsed — all three of them — because all three of them are far weaker today than they were when I took office. And let’s remember why. After Hamas attacked Israel on October the 7th, 2023, when much of the world responded with horror, Iran and its proxies chose to launch a multi-front war against Israel. That was a historic mistake on Iran’s part. Today, Iran’s main territorial proxy, Hezbollah, is also on its back. Only 12 days ago, I spoke from the Rose Garden about the ceasefire deal in Lebanon — a deal that was only possible because Hezbollah has been badly degraded. Meanwhile, Hamas has been da- — badly degraded as well. Iran’s own military capabilities have been weakened. Iran tried two times to attack Israel, and the United States and — built a coalition of countries to directly defend Israel and help defeat those attacks. All this made possible for Iran and Hezbollah to continue to prop up — impossible, I should say, for them to prop up the Assad regime. Additionally, Russia’s support for Assad also failed. And that’s because Ukraine, backed by our American allies, has put up a wall of resistance against the invading Russian forces, inflicting massive damage on the Russian forces. And that has left Russia unable to protect its main ally in the Middle East. Excuse my cold. The upshot for all this is, for the first time ever, neither Russia nor Iran nor Hezbollah could defend this abhorrent regime in Syria. And this is a direct result of the blows that Ukraine, Israel have delivered upon their own self-defense with unflagging support of the United States. And over the past four years, my administration pursued a clear, principled policy towards Syria. First, we made clear from the start sanctions on Ira- — on Ira- — Assad would remain in place unless he engaged seriously in a political process to end the civil war, as outlined under the U.N. Security Council resolution passed in 2015. But Assad refused, so we carried out a comprehensive sanction program against him and all those responsible for atrocities against the Syrian people. Second, we maintained our military presence in Syria. Our counter-ISIS — to counter the support of local partners as well on the ground — their partners — never ceding an inch of territory, taking out leaders of ISIS, ensuring that ISIS can never establish a safe haven there again. Third, we’ve supported Israel’s freedom of action against Iranian networks in Syria and against actors aligned with Iran who transported lethal aid to Lebanon, and, when necessary, ordered the use of military force against Iranian networks to protect U.S. forces. Our approach has shifted the balance of power in the Middle East. Through this combination of support for our partners, sanctions, and diplomacy and targeted military force when necessary, we now see new opportunities opening up for the people of Syria and for the entire region. Looking ahead, the United States will do the following: First, we’ll support Syria’s neighbors — including Jordan, Lebanon, Iraq, and Israel — should any threat arise from Syria during this period of transition. I will speak with leaders of the region in the coming days. I had long discussions with all of our people earlier this morning. And I’ll send senior officials from my administration to the region as well. Second, we will help stability — ensure stability in eastern Syria, protecting any personnel — our personnel against any threats. And it will remain — our mission against ISIS will be maintained, including the security of detention facilities where ISIS fighters are being held as prisoners. We’re clear-eyed about the fact that ISIS will try to take advantage of any vacuum to reestablish its capability and to create a safe haven. We will not let that happen. In fact, just today, U.S. forces conducted a dozen of precision strikes — air strikes within Syria targeting ISIS camps and ISIS operatives. Third, we will engage with all Syrian groups, including within the process led by the United Nations, to establish a transition away from the Assad regime toward independent, sovereign — an independent — independent — I want to say it again — sovereign Syria with a new constitution, a new government that serves all Syrians. And this process will be determined by the Syrian people themselves. And the United States will do whatever we can to support them, including through humanitarian relief, to help restore Syria after more than a decade of war and generations of brutality by the Assad family. And finally, we will remain vigilant. Make no mistake, some of the rebel groups that took down Assad have their own grim record of terrorism and humanit- — human right abuses. We’ve taken note of statements by the leaders of these rebel groups in recent days. And we’re — they’re saying the right things now, but as they take on greater responsibility, we will assess not just their words, but their actions. And as — we are mindful — we are mindful that there are Americans in Syria, including those who reside there, as well as Austin Tice, who was taken captive more than 12 years ago. We remain committed to returning him to his family. As I’ve said, this is a moment of considerable risk and uncertainty, but I also believe this is the best opportunity in generations for Syrians to forge their own future free of opposition. It’s also an opportunity, through far from certain — though it’s far from certain, for a more secure and prosperous Middle East, where our friends are safe, where our enemies are contained. And it would be a waste of this historic opportunity if one tyrant were toppled and only a — only to see a new one rise up in its place. So, it’s now incumbent upon all the opposition groups who seek a role in governing Syria to demonstrate their commitment to the rights of all Syrians, the rule of law, and the protection of religious and ethnic minorities. These past few days have been historic, and, you know, it’s in the days ahead that will determine the future of a — this country, and we intend to approach them with strength, wisdom, and resolve. So, thank you very much. God bless America. And God protect our troops. Thank you. 
Thank you very much. Mr. President, thank you very much for your hospitality. Fellow leaders and friends, I can’t think of a better way to end my trip to Angola than coming here to the Lobito Corridor. And I want to thank all of you — all of you for being here today, including the presidents of the Democratic Republic of the Congo; Zambia; Tanzania; and our partner, the CEO of the American Finance Corporation. It’s great to — to be here with all of you. And I mean that sincerely. I think we’re at one of those transition points in world history where what we do in the next several years is going to affect what the next six, seven, eight decades looks like, and I think this is one of those milestones. Our partner, the CEO of the Fi- — American Finance Corporation, is going to take care of everything for us. No- — nothing to worry about. But all kidding aside, it’s great to be with you all. When I launched this project with our G7 partners last year, I said our goal was to build a better future. And, folks, the future is here. It’s now. The future is here. The fact is I wish everyone could see what I saw today: tracks that will form America’s fir- — or Africa’s first intercontinental railroad — transcontinental railroad; a railcar that will cut travel from days to hours; and the — grain silos that are going to help transform the region from a food importers to food exporters; businesses that are investing across the corridor in 5G, solar panels, steel bridges made near my hometown back in Scranton, Pennsylvania. And I want to be clear about something. All these projects’ investments are designed to have high impact and meet the highest standards for workers, for the environment, and for their communities, because the United States understands how we invest in Africa is just as important as how much we invest in Africa. That’s what the PGI is part of, which is — I started a program early on — calling it Build Back Better, but we’ve changed it to PGI. And that’s why, today, I’m proud to announce the United States will invest nearly $600 million in additional investment to expand agriculture infrastructure, to build high-speed mobile networks, and to continue upgrading the Lobito Atlantic Railway. A few months ago, the DRC sent the first copper shipment on this railway for transit onward to the United States. The trip used to take 45 days to get to the United States from that. But now it takes 45 — less than 45 hours — 45 hours because of the changes you made. It’s a game changer. Imagine how transformative this will be for technology, clean energy, for farming, for food security as a whole. It’s faster, it’s cleaner, it’s cheaper, and — most importantly, I think — it’s just plain common sense. So, my message today is simple: Let’s keep it up. All told, the United States has invested nearly $4 billion across the length of the Lobito Corridor. But we’re not alone. Collectively, this group mobilized over $6 billion in private and public investments. But these aren’t just investments in the region; they’re investments in all of our futures, no matter where you are in the world. Think about it. Critical minerals our world needs for electric vehicles and semiconductors can be found here. Clean energy we need to power artificial intelligence data centers and economic growth can be built here. Food we need to end hunger can be grown and transported and exported from all across the corri- — this corridor. Put simply, as all of you know well, nations across the Lobito Corridor have solutions to some of the world’s toughest problems. We just need to keep working together — and I believe this from the bottom of my heart — if we work together — to mobilize more capital, to build more infrastructure to help make these solutions real, to help Africa — help Africa lead the way. I’ve said to these guys and my colleagues here for a while, the last two days, you know, by 2070, the continent of Africa is going to have half the world’s population. How can that survive without having the most — the greatest infrastructure in the world? It has to happen. To help Africa lead the way, we need more capital, more infrastructure to deal with these real solutions. And that’s why we’re here today. I want to make sure I get to hear from all of you. So, let me close with this. When we talk about the PGI, we often talk about the big picture: investment numbers, rising exports, national prosperity. But it’s important to remember, at its core, what we’re doing is about our people. I mean, it’s simple pra- — about individuals, about our people. That’s what this is about. And if I — it’s about the farmer who can get more food on more tables because of what we’re doing; the worker who can count on a living wage and safe working conditions; the entrepreneur who is finally empowered to lead, innovate, and build. It matters. It matters. So, thank you again for being here today and allowing me to be here. And let’s get started getting this done. Back to you, Amos. MR. HOCHSTEIN: Thank you, Mr. President. Next, we’ll turn to President Tshisekedi of the Democratic Republic of Congo, where the largest deposits of copper and cobalt that are now going to be switching direction on this corridor. So, would be grateful to hear your reflections on how this is proceeding and what we need to do in the future for the DRC. Mr. President, I’m coming back to ride on the train, all the way, from end to end. I — as they say, if you — when we — on the Senate floor of the United States Senate, “Excuse a point of personal privilege.” I’ve ridden an awful lot on trains. I commute every day 212 miles a day on Amtrak from Washington to my hometown to Wilmington, Delaware, as a senator. And so, I — I like trains a lot. So, I’m coming back. You’re stuck with me. I want to close with one final thought. It’s almost exactly this day, just over 160 years ago, my country, the United States, broke ground on America’s first transcontinental railroad. President Abraham Lincoln called it, quote, “the proudest thing of his life.” “The proudest thing of his life.” And — and he hoped that when he retired as president, he said, he’d be able to take a trip on that rail line. I want to take a trip on this rail line, if I can. Folks, PGI is one of the things that I’m most proud of in my presidency. The Lobito Corridor and all the work you all are doing proves why. Because, like Lincoln, we’re not just laying tracks; we’re laying the groundwork for a better future for our people — ordinary people, people that’s going to create jobs. It’s going to create good-paying jobs for people. It’s going to put them in a position where they can have the benefits people around the world have without having to long for them and actually get them. And so, you know, laying the groundwork for better a future is what we’re all doing here, in my view — a future of innovation, a future of opportunity, and, quite frankly, a future of pride. Back home in the United States, I often say that when people see big infrastructure projects in their hometown — when they see cranes in the air, shovels in the ground — it literally gives them hope. It gives them hope and brings pride back to communities that have left behind for too long, communities that used to have industry but no longer have it. And — and Africa has been left behind for much too long beyond that, but not anymore. Africa is the future. I’m not being solicitous. Those of you who’ve had to deal with me, I’ve been focusing on Africa since I was a kid in the United States Senate heading the Africa Affairs subcommittee. It is the future, and we have to step up. And I could not be prouder that our governments, our businesses, and our workers — — excuse me — are working together to seize that future — that future — to build something that will deliver for the region and, quite frankly, deliver to the whole world — deliver to the whole world. Going to get your coba- — your — your materials — instead of them coming in, you know, 45 days, they’ll come in 48 hours now. No, I’m serious. It’s a — it’s a big deal, as we say where I come from. To build something that will deliver for the region and the world — something that, if done right, will outlast all of us and keep delivering for our people for generations to come. So, thank you again for your partnership. Thank you, Mr. President, and all of you for your leadership. And I can’t wait to see all of you will continue to accomplish here in the Lobito Corridor in years ahead, and I think it’s going to set a standard for the rest of the world. So, thank you, thank you, thank you. And I really appreciate being able to work with you and what you’re doing. Appreciate it. 2:59 P.M. WAT
You are a brave crowd to come out in the rain. I brought my hat just in case. I don’t have much hair to help me. Leaders of Angola, government and civil society, students, young leaders, staff of the National Slavery Museum, distinguished guests, I sincerely mean this when I say thank you for being here in the rain with us today. Thank you for allowing me to be here. It’s an honor — a genuine honor to be with you today in Angola. I just got off the phone with the vice president, telling her I’m sorry she’s not with me to be here today, you know, with you in Angola, the — a vibrant city. And — and I — look, not the city. The city, I know, is not Angola, but in Angola in a vibrant city. And I’m joined by members of the United States Congress, senior officials of my administration, and American business and civic leaders. We think that it’s important that we get together. We thank all people of Angola for your warm hospitality, and I mean that s- — please sit down if you have a seat. Don’t — I’m sorry. I wasn’t sure you all had seats. We are gathered at a someln — a solemn location. Because to fully consider how far our two countries have come in our friendship, we have to remember how we began. We hear them in the wind and the waves. Young women, young men born free in the highlands of Angola, only to be captured, bound, and forced on a “death march” along this very coast to this spot by slave traders in the year 1619. In the building next to us, they were baptized into a foreign faith against their will, their names changed against their will to Anthony and Isabella. Then they were condemned to a slave ship bound for the Middle Passage, packed together in hundreds by hundreds. A third of those souls did not survive the journey. One third died on the way. But Anthony and Isabella made it to the British colony in Virginia, where they were sold into servitude and became two of the first enslaved Americans in a place that, 150 years later, would become the United States of America. They had a son, considered the first child of African descent born in America: William Tucker. It was the beginning of slavery in the United States. Cruel. Brutal. Dehumanizing. Our nation’s original sin — original sin — one that haunted America and casts a long shadow ever since. From the bloody Civil War that nearly tore my nation apart to the long battle with Jim Crow in the ni- — to — into the 1960s for the civil rights and voting rights movement — which got me involved in public life — during which American cities were burned, to the still unfinished reckoning with racial injustice in my country today. Historians believe people of Angola accounted for a significant number of all enslaved people shipped to America. Today, millions of African Americans have roots in Angola. As I said at the U.S.-African Leaders Summit that held in Washington two years — I held in Washington two years ago, “Our people lie at the heart of the deep and profound connection that forever binds Africa and the United States together. We remember the stolen men and women and children who were brought to our shores in chains, subjected to unimaginable cruelty.” Here with us today are three Americans who are direct descendants of Anthony and Isabella, those first enslaved Americans — Afri- — Africans in America. Wanda Tucker of Hamilton , Virginia. Wanda, are you there? There you are, Wanda. God love you. Her brother Vincent and Carolita as well. Thank you for being here. We’re going to write history, not erase history. The Tuckers learned their family history around the dinner table. That history led Wanda here in Angola a few years ago. She did not know how to speak the language, but that didn’t matter. When she arrived, Wanda said she felt something profound, like she’d come home. That was her comment to me. She called it the “connection without words.” Ladies and gentlemen, I am here today to honor that connection between our people and to pay tribute to the generations of Angolans and American families, like the Tuckers, who have served in government for over — I’ve served in government for over 50 years. I know I only look like I’m 40 years old, but I’ve been around hanging in the government for — — I hate to admit it — for 50 years. But in that 50 years, I’ve learned a lot. Perhaps most importantly, I have learned that while history can be hidden, it cannot and should not be erased. It should be faced. It’s our duty to face our history: the good, the bad, and the ugly — the whole truth. That’s what great nations do. That’s why I chose to speak here at the National Slavery Museum today, just as I toured. And that’s why your president visited the National Museum of African American Culture in the — in Washington, D.C. — the second most-visited museum in the States — and he did it a few years ago. He saw what I see: the stark contradiction between my country’s founding principles of liberty, justice, and equality and the way we long treated people from Angola and from throughout Africa. I’ve often said America is the only nation in the world founded on an idea. Most countries are founded based on race, ethnicity, religion, geography, or some other attribute. But in the United States, founded on idea, one embedded in our Declaration of Independence, and that is that all men and women are created equal and deserve to be treated equally throughout their lives. It’s abundantly clear today we have not lived up to that idea, but we’ve never fully walked away from it either. And that’s due in no small part to the determination and dreams of African Americans, including Angolan Americans. The proud descendants of the diaspora who helped build my nation as they rebuilt their own families and their own sense of self. They were the forebearers as well — resilient, faithful, even hopeful — hopeful that joy would cometh in the morning, as it says in the Bible; hopeful that our past would not be the story of our future; and hopeful, in time, the United States would write a different story in partnership with the people brought here in chains to my nation from Africa. It’s a story of mutual respect and mutual progress. That’s the history that brings me here, the first American president ever to visit Angola. Over time — — and I’m proud to be. Over time, the relationship beca- — between our countries has been transformed from distance to genuine warmth. Today, our relationship is the strongest it’s ever been. Throughout my presidency, it’s been my goal — goal of the United States to build a strong partnership with peoples and nations across the continent of Africa — true partnerships aimed at achieving shared goals, bringing to bear the dynamism of America’s private sector and the expertise of our government to support aspirations of African entrepreneurs, experts, leaders both inside and outside of government. Because we know the challenge that define our age demand African leadership. One out of every four human beings on Earth will live in Africa by the year 2050. And the ingenuity and determination of young Africans in particular, like the young society leaders I just met with here today, will be undeniable forces in that human progress. That’s why I’m so optimistic, because of that generation. In no small part, it will be in their hands and the hands of people across Africa to expand access to clean energy, to tackle threats of global health, to grow global — a global middle class. In many ways, Africa’s — Africa’s success is and will be the world’s success. As I said at the United States — U.S.-Africa Summit: The United States is all in on Africa’s future. Two years ago, I pledged to deliver $55 million in new investments in Africa and to mobilize American businesses to close new deals with African partners. Two years ago, we are out way ahead of schedule. More than 20 heads of U.S. government agencies and members of my Cabinet have traveled to Africa, delivering over $40 billion in investments thus far. And we have announced nearly 1,200 new business deals between African and American companies — and American companies — total will be worth $52 billion, including investments in solar energy, telecom, mobile finance, infrastructure, and partnerships with American airlines to expand opportunities for tourism so you don’t have to fly to Paris to get here — although Paris is pretty nice. Here in Angola alone, the United States has invested $3 billion during my short presidency. We see the bonds between our countries across sectors, from clean energy to health care to sports. The American Basketball Associat- — National Basketball Association launched Basketball Africa League and Angola is the reigning champion. And we see the impact of American culture across — African culture across the American culture, from music to entertainment to fashion to arts and so much more. Student exchanges between our countries are essential and must increase. Students in both countries can be — better understand one another if they know the country, if they visit the country, if they’re educated in the other country. An increased connection between us makes a big difference. Being all in on Africa means making sure African voices are heard at the tables that matter most. Under my leadership, the United States brought — we brought in the African Union as a permanent member of the G20 economies, and we insisted on more African representation among the leaders of the International Monetary Fund and other world financial institutions. We’ve also pushed to ensure that developing nations do not — do not choose — have to choose between paying down unsustainable debt and being able to invest in their own people. And we’re using our voi- — our own voice to increase Africa’s presence on the U.N. Security Council at the United Nations. That should happen. You can clap for that, folks. You should be in there. The United States continues to be the world’s largest provider of humanitarian aid and development assistance. And that’s going to increase. You know, that’s the right thing for the wealthiest nation in the world to do. And today, I’m announcing over $1 billion in new humanitarian support for Africans displaced from homes by historic droughts and food insecurity. But we know African leaders and citizens are seeking more than just aid. You seek investment. And so, the United States is expanding our relationship all across Africa — from assistance to aid to investment to trade — moving from patrons to partners to help bridge the infrastructure gap. I was told, by the way, when I got elected I could never get an infrastructure bill passed because the last guy spent eight years saying, “Next month” — four years saying, “Next month.” Well, guess what, folks? We’ve done it. A trillion — a trillion three hundred billion dollars for infrastructure to narrow the digital divide, drive inclusive, sustainable economic growth. We’re looking for partners who understand that the right question in the year 2024 is not “What can the United States do for the people of Africa?” It’s “What can we do together for the people of Africa?” That’s what we’re going to do. Nowhere in Africa is the answer more exciting than here in Angola. It starts with our governments, whose partnership is stronger, deeper, and more effective and active than any point in history. It’s testament to your president, who had the vision to carry out this relationship — carry this relationship forward. And it’s a testament to Angolan citizens across the private sector and civil society who have forged strong bonds with your American counterparts. And together, we’re engaged in a major joint project to close the infrastructure gap for the benefit of Angolans, Africans across the continent, Americans, and the world. We’ll all benefit, as you benefit. You’re — you can produce much more agriculture, for example, than states that can’t. You’re going to increase their longevity, and you’re going to increase your impact and profit. It’s called the Lobito Corridor. We’re building railroad lines from Angola to the Port of Lobito, in Zambia and the DRC, and, ultimately, all the way to the Atlantic — from the Atlantic Ocean to the Indian Ocean. It’ll be the first trans-continental railroad in Africa and the biggest American rail investment outside of America. And I must tell you up front, with American press here, I’m probably the most pro-rail guy in America. I’ve ri- — I’ve ridden over 1,300,000 miles on a daily basis to my work, 210 — -20 miles a day for the last 50 years. Well, I didn’t do it as president. I stayed in the White House a lot. But all kidding aside, folks, we can do this. We can do this. It’s in our power. It will not only generate significant employment, it will also allow individual countries to maximize their own domestic resources for the benefit of their people and sell critical minerals that power the world’s energy transformation and our fight against climate change and to transport them in a fraction of the time and lower cost. A shipment that used to take over 45 days will now take 45 hours. That’s a game changer. That increases profit. That increases opportunity. The Lobito Corridor represents the right way to invest in full partnership with a country and its people. As part of this project, we will install enough clean energy power to power hundreds of thousands of homes, expand high-speed Internet across — for millions of Angolans, which is a cos- — as consequential today as electricity was two generations ago. And we’re investing in agriculture and food security, fulfilling the needs of countries without agricultural capacity and expanding opportunities for countries growing the crops; connecting farmers across the Lobito — along the Lobito Corridor to new markets, expanding opportunity and prosperity — you doing that, having the means to do it. The United States understands how we invest in Africa is as important as how much we invest. In too many places, 10 years after the so-called investment was made, workers are still coming home on a dirt road and without electricity, a village without a school, a city without a hospital, or a country under crushing debt. We seek a better way: transparent, high-standard, open-access investments that protect workers and the rule of law and the environment. It can be done and will be done. And, folks, the partnership between Angola and the United States also extends to supporting peace and security in this region and beyond. Pl- — Pr- — President Lourenço, I want to thank him for his leadership and mediation in regional conflicts. I also want to thank him for Angola speaking out against Russia’s unprovoked war against Ukraine. It matters. It matters when leaders speak out. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, I am in the final weeks of my presidency. You don’t have to clap for that. You can if you want. But I wanted to come to Angola. Although I’ve been chairman of the Africa America subcommittee for a long time, I had never made it to Angola. Because although I don’t know exactly what the future will hold, I know the future runs through Angola, through Africa. I mean it sincerely. I’m not kidding. I know that any nation that wants to thrive in the next century must work as partners with workers, entrepreneurs, and businesses here in Africa. I know that the connection between our communities, our universities, our sports, our civil societies, our families, our people will only grow deeper. We have to stay focused. The story of Angola and the United States holds a lesson for the world: two nations with a shared history in evil of human bondage; two nations on opposite sides of the Cold War, defining struggle in the late part of the 20th century; and now, two nations standing shoulder to shoulder, working together every day for the mutual benefit of our people. It’s a reminder that no nation need be permanently a — the adversary of another, a testament to the human capacity for reconciliation, and proof that from every — from the horrors of slavery and war, there is a way forward. So, I stand here today — I mean this sincerely — deeply optimistic. When I — by the way, 20 years ago, when I was a senator, I had a cranial aneurysm. They s- — got me to the hospital in time. I remember asking the doctor, “What are my ch-” — he said, “Oh, your chances are good. They’re about 30 percent.” When it was all over, he was deciding whether or not it was congenital or environmental. And I said, “I don’t give a damn. I’m here.” He said, “You know what your problem is, Senator? You’re a congenital optimist.” I am. About the possibilities and progress that lie just beyond the horizon. Together, we can and will chart a futuche worther of great nations, worthy of the highest aspirations of our people. We just have to remember who we are: We’re Angolans; we’re Americans. As I often say in Ameri- — to the American people: There’s nothing — nothing beyond our capacity if we work together. And today, I say to the people of Angola and all the people of Africa, there is nothing beyond our capacity if we do it together. Thank you. And God bless you and keep you all safe. Thank you, thank you, thank you. And thank you for waiting. And I got my hat. Thanks, everybody. I really mean it. You’re very patient. 
Good afternoon. Today, I have some good news to report from the Middle East. I just spoke with the prime minister of Israel and Lebanon, and I’m pleased to announce that their governments have accepted the United States’ proposal to end the devastating conflict between Israel and Hezbollah. And I want to thank President Macron of France for his partnership in reaching this moment. For nearly 14 months, a deadly conflict raged across the border that separates Israel and Lebanon — a conflict that began the day after the October 7th attack by Hamas on Israel. Hours later, at 2:00 a.m. in the morning, Hezbollah and other terrorist organizations backed by Iran attacked Israel in support of Hamas. Let’s be clear: Israel did not launch this war. The Lebanese people did not seek that war either, nor did the United States. Over the past year, including in the days immediately ta- — following October the 7th, I directed the U.S. military to flow assets and capabilities into the region, including aircraft carriers, fighter squadrons, and sophisticated air defense battery to defend Israel and deter our common enemy at critical moments. Since the war with Hezbollah began, over 70,000 Israelis have been forced to live in refugee — li- — live as refugees in their own country, helplessly watching their homes, their businesses, their communities as they were bombarded and destroyed. And over 300,000 Lebanese people have also been forced to live as refugees in their own country in a war imposed on them by Hezbollah. All told, this has been the deadliest conflict between Israel and Hezbollah in decades. How many of Hezbollah’s senior leaders are dead, including its longtime leader Nasrallah? And Israel has — and Israel has destroyed Hezbollah’s terrorist infrastructure in southern Lebanon as well, including miles of sophisticated tunnels, which were prepared for an October 7th-style terrorist attack in northern Israel. But lasting security for the people of Israel and Lebanon cannot be achieved only on the battlefield. And that’s why I’ve directed my team to work with the governments of Israel and Lebanon to forge a ceasefire to bring the conflict between Israel and Hezbollah to a close. Under the deal reached today, effective at 4:00 a.m. tomorrow local time, the fighting across the Lebanese-Israeli border will end — will end. This is designed to be a permanent cessation of hostilities. What is left of Hezbollah and other terrorist organizations will not be allowed — will — I emphasize — will not be allowed to threaten the security of Israel again. Over the next 60 days, the Lebanese Army and the State Security Forces will deploy and take control of their own territory once again. Hezbollah terrorist infrastructure in southern Lebanon will not be allowed to be rebuilt. And over the next 60 days, Israel will gradually withdraw its remaining forces and civilians — civilians on both sides will soon be able to safely return to their communities and begin to rebuild their homes, their schools, their farms, their businesses, and their very lives. We’re determined this conflict will not be just another cycle of violence. And so, the United States, with the full support of France and our other allies, has pledged to work with Israel and Lebanon to ensure that these arra- — this — this arrangement is fully implemented — the agreement totally implemented. You know, there will be no U.S. troops deployed in southern Lebanon. This is consistent with my commitment to the American people to not put U.S. troops in combat in this conflict. Instead, we, along with France and others, will provide the necessary assistance to make sure this deal is implemented fully and effectively. Let us — let me be clear: If Hezbollah or anyone else breaks the deal and poses a direct threat to Israel, then Israel retains the right to self-defense consistent with international law, just like any country when facing a terrorist group pledged to that country’s destruction. At the same time, this deal supports Lebanon’s sovereignty. And so, it heralds a new start for Lebanon — a country that I’ve seen most of over the years, a country with rich history and culture. If fully implemented, this deal can put Lebanon on a path toward a future that’s worthy of its significant past. And just as the Lebanese people deserve a future of security and prosperity, so do the people of Gaza. They too deserve an end to the fighting and displacement. The people of Gaza have been through hell. Their word — their world is absolutely shattered. Far too many civilians in Gaza have suffered far too much. And Hamas has refused, for months and months, to negotiate a good-faith ceasefire and a hostage deal. And so, now Hamas has a choice to make. Their only way out is to release the hostages, including American citizens which they hold, and, in the process, bring an end to the fighting, which would make possible a surge of humanitarian li- — relief. Over the coming days, the United States will make another push with Turkey, Egypt, Qatar, Israel, and others to achieve a ceasefire in Gaza with the hostages released and the end to the war without Hamas in power — that it becomes possible. As for the broader Middle East region, today’s announcement brings us closer to realizing the affirmative agenda that I’ve been pushing forward during my entire presidency: a vision for the future of the Middle East where it’s at peace and prosperous and integrated across borders; a future where Palestinians have a state of their own, one that fulfills its people’s legitimate aspirations and one that cannot threaten Israel or harbor terrorist groups with backing from Iran; a future where Israelis and Palestinians enjoy equal measures of security, prosperity, and — yes — dignity. To that end, the United States remains prepared to conclude a set of historic deals with Saudi Arabia to include a security pact and economic assurances together with a credible pathway for establishing a Palestinian state and the full — the full normalization of relations between Saudi Arabia and Israel — a desire they both have. I believe this agenda remains possible. And in my remaining time in office, I will work tirelessly to advance this vision of — for an integrated, secure, and prosperous region, all of which — all of which strengthens America’s national security. Getting all this done will require making some hard choices. Israel has been told on the — has been bold on the battlefield. Iran and its proxies have paid a very heavy price. Now Israel must be bold in turning tactical gains against Iran and its proxies into a coherent strategy that secure Israel’s long-term — its long-term safety and advances a broader peace and prosperity in the region. Today’s announcement is a critical step in advancing that vision. And so, I applaud the courageous decision by the leaders of Lebanon and Israel to end the violence. It reminds us that peace is possible. Say that again: Peace is possible. As long as that is the case, I will not for a single moment stop working to achieve it. God bless you all. And sorry to keep you waiting so long. May God protect our troops. Thank you. 
everyone around this table. It’s going to take all of us — time. It’s going to take all of us and the ability to step up to take on responsibility. First — it seems to me there’s certain key steps. First, we have to invest at large scale to help countries meet Sustainable Development Goals and tackle gloma- — global challenges. We’ve made good progress boosting the firepower of multilateral development banks so they have more resources to address the challenges like pandemics and climate change. Now we need to make sure the World Bank can continue its work in the most vulnerable countries. I’m proud to announce the United States is pledging $4 billion over the next three years to the World Bank’s International Development Association. As my friend Ajay tells you, the IDA is a first responder to the world’s poorest countries. I encourage everyone around this table to increase their pledges in December. In addition, we have to mobilize private capital at scale. I’m proud of my country’s work in this fund, including mobilizing $60 billion through the Partnership for Global Infrastructure and Investment. That partnership will be a game changer for food security, especially in the Lobito Corridor in Africa. Second, debt relief. Too many nations are fo- — forced to choose between investing in the future and paying off their debt. That’s why, earlier this year, I came together with Kenya to announce the Nairobi-Washington Vision. It boils down to a simple proposition. For countries that are willing to make bold reforms and smart investments, we should do three things: mobilize more resources from the multilateral developments banks; two, unlock low-cost private-sector financing; and three, commit the following money into the- — to flowing money into these countries rather than taking it out during their need — their moments of need. And I want to note: All creditors must play a role, in my view. Finally, we all have to work to end the conflicts and crises that are eroding progress in food security around the world. Ukraine. The United States strongly supports Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity. Everyone around this table, in my view, should as well. And, by the way, Russia’s brutal invasion of Ukraine led to the highest-record food crisis in all of history. On Gaza. As I’ve said before, Israel has the right to defend itself after the worst massacre of Jews since the Holocaust, but how it defends itself — even as Hamas cruelly hides among civilians — matters a great deal. The United States has led the world in humanitarian aid to Gaza, and we’re going to keep pushing to accelerate a ceasefire deal that ensures Israel’s security but brings hostages home and ends the suffering of the Palestinian people and children. I ask everyone here to increase their pressure on Hamas that is currently refusing this deal. And on Sudan. We’re seeing one of the world’s most humani- — serious humanitarian crisis: 8 million people on the brink of famine. This deserves our collective outrage and our collective attention. External actors must stop arming generals and speak with one voice to tell them, “Stop tearing your country apart. Stop blocking aid to the Sudanese people. Stop the violence.” Let me close with this. As you know, this is my last G20 Summit. We’ve made progress together, but I urge you to keep going — and I’m sure you will, regardless of my urging or not. This group is — within — has within its power to usher in a new era of sustainable development, to go from billions to trillions in assistance to those who — most in need. This all may sound lofty, but this group can lay the foundation to make that achievable. Thank you very much, and I look forward to the rest of our discussion. 11:32 A.M. BRT
Thanks for all being here. Back in the late ‘80s, Chico Mendes, a Brazilian rubber tapper who turned environmental activist, said the following, I quote, “At first, I thought I was fighting to save rubber trees. Then I thought I was fighting to save the Amazon rainforest. Now I realize I was fighting for humanity.” At the time, I was a United States senator, working with a great Republican senator named Dick Lugar, from Indiana, to enact a new law: The United States would relieve other countries of debts owed to us if they commit to protecting their own forest. These debt-for-nature swaps have since protected nearly 70 million acres of forests worldwide. And today I’m proud to be here, the first sitting U.S. president to visit the Amazon rainforest, to recommit to protecting the rainforests, like this one. The most powerful solutions we have to fight climate change is all around us: the world’s forests. Trees breathe carbon dioxide out of the atmosphere. And yet, each minute, the world is chopping down the equivalent of 10 soccer fields worth of forests — each minute. That’s why we’ve been a leader internationally in the fight to end and reverse deforestation by twenty-twe- — by 2030. That’s why we’ve led by example at home, conserving an area of the U.S. lands and waters larger — larger than the state of — the nation of Uruguay. We’ve done it by fighting for Tribal partners — lifting them up; Indigenous communities; and most impacted by deforestation and climate change. Today’s announcement will support Indigenous communities to do some — the same here in the Amazon. We all know there’s much more we can do and must do at home and abroad. That’s why today I issued an official proclamation to support the conservation of nature around the world, because the fight to protect our planet is literally a fight for humanity for generations to come. It may be the only existential threat to all our nations and to all humanity that exists. With today’s proclamation, I am proud to announce, first, the United States Development Finance Corporation will mobilize hundreds of millions of dollars in partnership with a Brazilian company to reforest the Amazon. Second, we’re launching a Brazil Restoration and Bioeconomy Finance Coalition to mobilize at least $10 billion by 2030 to restore and protect 20,000 square miles of land. And, third, I’m announcing an additional $50 million to the Amazon Fund that’s already — we’ve giv- — already given $50 million. Fourth, we’ll provide the funding to help launch President Lula’s important new initiative, the Tropical Forest Forever Fund. It’s in the interest of all of us. The United States benefits from that as much as any other country does, including here in Brazil. I’m also so proud to support bipartisan legislation to launch a new foundation for international conservation that would leverage public funds to mobilize billions more in private capital. The fight against climate change has been a defining cause of my presidency. My administration first rejoined the Paris Agreement on climate change. We’ve launched 150-nation-strong Global Methane Pledge. We’ve delivered a record climate financing to developing countries. And we’ve pledged that we would deliver $11 billion per year by 2024. I’m pleased to announce today that we not only kept that promise, we’ve surpassed it. Back home, I signed the most significant climate change law in history, a law that positioned us to cut carbon emissions in half by 2030, that’s generated $450 billion in new clean energy investments, and that’s created hundreds of thousands of good-paying jobs and a manufacturing boom as well. Folks, we don’t have to choose between the environment and the economy. You can do both. We’ve proven it back home. It’s no secret that I’m leaving office in January. I will have my su- — I will leave my successor and my country in a strong foundation to build on if they choose to do so. It’s true some may seek to la- — deny or delay the clean energy revolution that’s underway in America, but nobody — nobody can reverse it — nobody. Not when so many people, regardless of party or politics, are enjoying its benefits. Not when countries around the world are harnessing the clean energy revolution to pull ahead themselves. The question now is: Which government will stand in the way, and which will seize the enormous economic opportunity? Let me close with this. It’s often said that the Amazon is the lungs of the world — the Amazon is the lungs of the world. But in my view, our forests and national wonders are the heart and soul of the world. They unite us. They inspire us. They make us proud of our countries and heritage — a bridge to the past and to our future, a birthright we pass down from generation to generation. Zama- — the Amazon rainforest was built up over 50 million years — 50 million years. History is literally watching us now. So, let’s preserve this sacred place, for our time and forever, for the benefit of all humanity. Thank you very, very much. 3:46 P.M. AMT
That was worth the trip. Well, welcome, everyone. I’m delighted to see you all. You know, my fellow leaders and friends we’ve honored here, it’s an honor to welcome you here tonight. I should start off by saying we owe a special thanks tonight to — to Mayor Bloomberg. He’s not the mayor right now, but he’s still the mayor. Mr. Mayor, thank you for all you’ve done. I want to begin by quoting someone who I wish was here tonight: my mom, Catherine Eugenia Finnegan Biden. Growing up, my mom had an expression. She had a lot of expression. She had a backbone like a ramrod. But my mom, she used to say, “Joey, remember, never bow, never bend, never yield, and never give up.” Folks, as I said yesterday at the United Nations, I recognize the challenges the world faces: Ukraine, Gaza, Sudan, Haiti, war, hunger, poverty, climate change. But my message to you tonight is this: We must never, ever, ever bow, bend, yield, or give up. And most importantly, we must never lose faith — lose faith in our abilities to do so much. I was first elected to the United States Senate when I was 29 years old, 280 years ago. Since then, I’ve seen the impossible become — the impossible become reality, for real. I’ve seen the Berlin Wall come down. I’ve seen Poland leave the — I shouldn’t go on, I guess. But I’ve seen apartheid end. I’ve seen humanity pull together to prevent a nuclear war. I’ve seen war criminals and dictators face justice and accountability for human rights violations. And I’ve seen countries in the Middle East make peace. We must always remember. In America, I was — I spent a lot of time with Xi of China, and we were in the Tibetan Plateau, and it was one of my 90-some hours alone with him. And he looked at me; he said, “Can you define America for me?” This is an absolutely true story. He said, “Can you define America for me?” I said, “Yes. In one word: possibilities — possibilities.” We believe anything is possible. No, I really mean it. Remember, nothing is impossible. And, folks, look, in our time, we turn the page on the — on the — on a whole range of issues. We turned the page. Nothing is impossible, as I said, but we turned the page on the worst pandemic in a century. We defended Ukraine as a tyrant threatened to wipe it off the map. We made the largest investment in history to fight climate change, the existential threat to humanity. And, folks, time and again — and I mean this sincerely — time and again, our nation and our world found a way forward. But make no mistake: It didn’t happen by accident. Nothing was inevitable. It took people like all of you assembled here tonight refusing to give up, rejecting the forces that pull us apart, believing that change is possible, and fighting to make it so every single day. That’s what you in this room assembled have done. Ladies and gentlemen, that’s our change. Together, we can broker deals, end wars and suffering. We can stop the spread of disease and dangerous weapons alike. We can make AI empower people, not shackle them. We can cut our emissions and achieve our climate ambitions. We can leave our children, literally, a better world. That’s our obligation, and we can. We can do this. I can say to you — and I mean this sincerely — I’ve never more optimistic in my life because of all of you, and I mean it from the bottom of my heart. So, thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Keep it up. And every time I’d walk out of my grandpop’s house up in Scranton, he’d yell, “Joey, keep the faith.” My grandmother would go, “No, Joey, spread it.” Spread it. Spread it. Spread it. Folks, remember, nothing is beyond our capacity when we work together. Nothing at all. So, thank you, thank you, thank you for all you’re doing. I appreciate it very, very much. It’s an honor to be with you. Thank you. 5:54 P.M. EDT
Thank you, thank you, thank you. Welcome to Washington. Fellow leaders, friends, nine hundred and f- — for 944 days, Putin has waged his vicious onslaught against Ukraine. For 944 days, the Ukrainian people have stood unwavering, unbroken, and unbowed. Today, we’re launching a Joint Declaration of Support for Ukrainian Recovery and Reconstruction to make it clear: We stand with Ukraine now and in the future. That starts on the battlefield. I am determined to ensure that Ukraine has what it needs to prevail in its fight for its survival. Tomorrow, I will announce a series of actions to accelerate support for Ukraine’s military. But we know Ukraine’s future victory is about more than what happens on the battlefield. It’s also about what Ukrainians do to make the most of a free and independent future, of which so many have sacrificed so much. With this declaration, over 30 countries and the European Union have made important commitments. First, as Ukraine continues to make necessary reforms to fight corruption, we are committed to providing Ukraine with the resources it needs to build back stronger than it was before. Folks, it’s no secret Russian attacks have caused significant damage to Ukraine. And less well-known is the story of Ukraine’s economic resilience. Ukraine’s GDP is stable and actually growing. Ukraine’s defense industry, forged in the fire, is six times larger than it was a year ago. And Ukraine is now exporting almo- –exporting almost as much grain as it did before the war, feeding people and the world once again. Ukraine’s economy is resilient, and together, we can help Ukraine go from economic resilience to economic revival. Second, we commit to hold Russia accountable for the damage it has caused. This builds on a historic effort by the G7. Back in 2022, two days after Russia’s invasion, members of the G7 and the EU worked together to freeze $280 billion in Russian Central Bank funds outside of Russia. This summer, at the G7, the United States and our partners reached a decision to unlock $50 billion from the proceeds of those frozen assets to put that money to work for Ukraine as it rebuilds and recovers its economy. Today, we reaffirm that with all our respective countries and legal systems, Russia’s sovereign assets will remain immobilized until Russia ends its aggression and pays for the damage it has caused. Finally, we’re committed to coordinate closely, through efforts like the Ukraine Donor Platform, so we can make sure that each dollar goes as far as possible, reinforcing one another instead of duplicating work. Let me close with this. This war has shown the Ukrainians can do anything they set their minds to. Today, we show the Ukrainians you’re not alone. You’re not alone in this fight. You’re not alone in the reconstruction that comes after. Ukrainian people have fought and died to win a future of freedom and independence. Mr. President, we all — we all stand by your side to help Ukraine make the most of it. Thank you all very much. 4:07 P.M. EDT
Hello, hello, hello. Thank you. Thank you, thank you, thank you. Thank you. If I — thank you. Thank you, thank you, thank you. If I were smart, I’d leave now. Thank you all so very much. Mr. Mayor, Michael, thank you. You know, I awarded the Presidential Medar of — of Freedom because you’ve literally revolutionized our economy. It’s not hyperbole. You transformed how we consume information. You challenged and solved the toughest issues. And thank you for hosting this important forum. And thank all the business leaders here today, and thank my Cabinet members for their work as well. Energy Secretary Jennifer Granholm is here. The EPA administrator, Michael Regan, is here. You know, four years ago, Kamala and I inherited the worst pandemic in a century, the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression. I got to hold a minute here and tell you a little story. When I — when I — I sat in the Oval Office every morning at 9 o’clock and then ended the day with Barack for eight years. And there was only one — there was only one portrait above the fireplace: a portrait of George Washington — fairly small but a beautiful portrait. And so, I — when — I didn’t realize it at the time, all the times I’d been in the Oval, that the incoming president cannot go into the Oval on the 20th until after 4 o’clock, and the outgoing president has to leave by 10:00, although the outgoing president never showed up. Anyway. But — so, I asked my brother Jim, who has better taste than I do, to pick what we needed for th- — to pick what desk you want, what rug you — you know, the things you want in your office. And I said I only wanted a couple things. I wanted to make sure I had the Resolute Desk, and I wanted a — looking next to the — at the — next to the fireplace, I wanted a — the bust of Martin Luther King, who was one of my heroes as I was coming up as a young civil rights guy, and Bobby Kennedy. I have great — great admir- — admiration for John Kennedy, but I could never picture him at my kitchen table. Any rate. So, we’re standing — I walk in, and my brother is showing me, and I look up, and there’s this giant portrait of Franklin Roosevelt. And — and Jon Meacham was on the phone — on the speaker. And I said, “Why Franklin Roosevelt? I admire him, but why Franklin Roosevelt?” He said, “Well, no one has inherited an economy in more disarray than when Franklin Roosevelt was president.” I said, “Isn’t that wonderful?” Swear to God. True story. I looked to the left, there’s Abraham Lincoln. I said, “Why Abraham Lincoln? I admire the hell out of Lincoln, but why?” He said, “The country has never been as divided since the Civil War.” I said, “I’m the hell out of here.” Anyway. But, look, a lot has changed. A lot has changed. When we came into office, the climate is in crisis and one existential threat that faced all the nations. Mayor Bloomberg, Michael, you’ve con- — you’ve convened leadership — national and international levels — to lead the charge and change the mindset. You know, I just met with the president of the UAE, who was a massive investor in clean energy around the world. That’s what he wanted to talk to me about. I just hosted a three-day conference with the Quad in Delaware, it — with the prime minister of India, Australia, and Japan, three of the fastest-growing economies in the world. They understand you can’t remain dependent on fossil fuels. They need to lead the clean energy future. I had a discussion with the president of Kenya, whom I hosted in the state — for a state visit. Kenya is also a global leader in clean energy. Together — together, we’ve launched the U.S.-Kenya Climate and Clean Energy In- — Industrial Partnership. All this matters. Now I want to pivot to home here. Since I’ve been president, I’ve flown over more wildfires — unfortunately, this is the God’s truth — in helicopters, from Arizona, Idaho, Mo- — all the way to Montana, and I’ve — more acreage I’ve looked down on — seen more acreage burned on the ground — to the ground than the entire state of Maryland, in terms of area. Just wildfires. They — they — I — we — I’ve toured the community ravaged by tornadoes and floods and more than — more — that cost lives and livelihoods, it costs taxpayers billions of dollars in damage. But when Kamala and I came into office, there was no real plan in place to do anything about it. As a government, we were doing nothing — virtually nothing. We were determined not only to deliver immediate economic relief to the American people but to transform our — how our economy works in the long term; to write a new economic playbook to grow the economy from the middle out and the bottom up instead of the top down — that way, workers do well, no one is left behind, and the wealthy still do very well; and wanted to leave no — and foster fair competition; invest in all of America and all Americans. And I’ve been pointing out, when it comes to the climate, every time I talk about it — whether I was trying to convince labor or business to come along, I’d say, “When I think climate, I think jobs. I think jobs.” And I mean it — good union-paying jobs. In fact, I’m proud to have kept my commitment to bring unions and business to — to the climate table. That’s what we’re seeing. Rather than the climate conservation about sacrifice — con- — conversation about sacrifice, we’re focused on doing less. Kamala and I have pursued an ambitious climate policy focused on growth. And the public and private sector led — lead to all the — you — all of you in this audience, you’ve led, building our economic capacity. Together, we’ve proven that a strong middle class, thriving innovation, and manufacturing are the key to winning climate here at home and abroad. Here — here are the key climate pages from the new economic playbook. We rejoined the Paris Agreement immediately after my predecessor had walked away. We got to work planning private capital off — pulling private capital off the sidelines, getting our workers in the game, and, once again, leading the world on climate. Bringing jobs back home — manufacturing and technology we invented here in the United States decades ago, bringing it back. We’re bringing back hope and pride in communities, opening shuttered factories in zip codes too often left behind. I might point out I was criticized very much for having done more to invest in red states than blue states, but I made a commitment that when I ran, I’d be president for all people — all people, whether they voted for me or not. And we’re doing that in what I call Investing in America agenda. I wrote and signed into law the Inflation Reduction Act, the most significant climate law ever passed in the history of the world. We were told it couldn’t get done, but we did it. More than $369 billion in climate and en- — and clean energy. The si- — not a single Republican voted for it. But the In- — the Inflation Reduction Act lowers energy costs for families with rebates and tax credits to install rooftop solar and energy-efficient appliances, weatherizing your windows and doors and high-tech insulation and more efficient heating and cooling systems, and so much more. And you get a tax credit for doing it. The groundbreaking laws also catalyze clean energy innovation in areas like battery technology, nuclear energy, geothermal that will create hundreds of thousands of jobs for American workers. In fact, along with other historic investments in infrastructure — and our infrastructure bill was a trillion three hundred billion dollars in science and technology — private companies in the United States and globally have announced investments of nearly $1 trillion in clean energy manufacturing here in America in the last three years. And you all are the leaders of that. You’re the ones. And we’re just getting started. In the face of the dangerous and deadly impacts of climate change, we’re also making our cities and towns more resilient. This is a new formula on climate: creating jobs, reducing pollution, cleaning up our water and air, improving our quality of life, building a better America. For example, a once-in-a-generation modernization of our grid means this year we’ll add more new electric capacity than we have in two decades, and 96 percent of what it — that will be clean energy. I went to the University of Delaware, and the university professor was the first professor — the first solar-powered building that inspired residential solar adaptation. And more than 80 percent of the solar panels and — and components are manufactured in China though, but now we’re turning that around. American solar panel manufacturing is up four times what it was four years ago, with more to come. America inher- — invented the lithium-ion battery technology that’s powering our clean energy transformation, including electric vehicles and the grid. But when Kamala and I came into office, America was barely making any — any of these batteries, while other countries were commercializing them. But not anymore. There are more than 14 gigafactories — massive, large-scale factories op- — opening or under construction to make advanced batteries here in America and more to come. We’re also making the battery components here in America, making sure that we — the supply chain starts in America. And all of this is helping power an electric revolution in transportation. We’ve quadrupled the development of electric vehicles since I took office. We’re deploying a fleet of clean school busses that will not only — will not pollute the air. Our Postal Service is going fully electric. We’ve invested $45 billion in electric trains in America, because if a person can choose between a car and a train to get to their destination in the same time, 70 to 80 percent of that — they will take the train, and it’s 70 to 80 percent less pollution than driving the same distance. And we now have tools to lower emissions from building materials. For the first time ever, we’re beginning to produce clean steel, cement, and aluminum. I think most Americans had no idea how much pollution has occurred when you — when you make cement. Well, the American people know how much pollution heavy industries produce, since each one produces as much pollution as a small country. We’re now making the most significant investment ever in rural America. Eighty thousand farms across America are implementing climate-smart agriculture — cover crops, nutrient management, storing carbon in the soil — which creates new sources of wealth for farmers, families at the same time. We’re also carrying out the most ambitious conservation agenda in a long time. We’re on track to conserve — a commitment I made — 30 percent of all our lands and waters by the year 2030. Since taking office, my administration has already conserved over 42 million acres. The Inflation Reduction Act is also the most significant law ever advancing environmental justice for disadvantaged and so-called fence-line communities, like Cancer Alley in Louisiana or Route 9 corridor in Delaware. We’re making sure these communities receive 40 percent of the benefits in — of the key investments in pollution reduction, clean energy, and infrastructure. All this matters. It matters a great deal. In just under four years, the economy has created nearly 16 million jobs — the most ever in a single presidential term. In just two years since the Inflation Reduction Act, we’ve created more than 330,000 clean energy jobs. I should say “you’ve created.” You created that. Clean energy jobs are growing twice as fast in the economy — as the economy overall. Clean energy workers are joining unions at the highest level in history. And I’m really proud to have launched the American Climate Corps, patterned after the Peace Corps and America Corps , to put tens of thousands of young people on the path to good-paying clean energy jobs to improve our environment and grow our economy. And, you know, the United States has reasserted America’s position as a global leader in climate. We’re leading an all-out effort to partner with nations to reduce global emissions, to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius. You all remember when Putin invaded Ukraine, which sent food and energy prices soaring around the world and showing just how volatile and fragile a fossil fuel-based economy can be. The United States rallied the world against Putin’s aggression. We’ve led the world in releasing oil reserves and stabilizing global energy markets while also working quickly as possible to deploy clean energy resources. You know, I convened summit leaders on climate and the American Leaders’ Summit — or the African Leaders’ Summit, I should say. In COP28, the United States galvanized the world to commit for the first time to transition away from unabated fossil fuels. Across the board, America’s climate leadership is encouraging American companies to invest in private capital for clean energy development into low- to middle-income nations and so much more. I thank the business leaders who are here today for leading the way, and I mean that. All this historic climate change is in stark contrast to my predecessor. He says he’d re- — repeal the Inflation Reduction Act. He’d let our factories shut down. He’d move the world backwards. His denial of climate change condemns our future generations to a more dangerous world. And, by the way, windmills do not cause cancer. I think we’ve laid out a better choice. And today, we are better positioned than any other nation in the world to fo- — to promote a clean energy future. In fact, it’s the perfect time to go big. The market for clean energy is booming. Inflation is way down in America. The Federal Reserve just announced lowering interest rate, and I — I predict they’ll go fur- — further down. We should give business even more confidence to invest trillions of dollars that are on the sidelines in the clean energy industries of the future. I’m doing my part. Now I’m calling on other companies with the capital in the room to invest more and do more. Now is the time. Let me close with this. Four years though, we’ve gone from historic crisis to histor- — historic process — progress and in doing it with a new playbook based on one of the oldest truths of our nation: invest in America, believe in America, believe in possibilities, and share it with the world. That’s what I see — if I could see all of you — when I look at all of you. I really mean this. I know I only look like I’m 40 years old, but I’m a little older. You know, I’ve been doing this a long time — 51 years in elective office, and — — that’s hard to say. That’s hard to say. But I give you my word as a Biden: I’ve never been more optimistic about America’s future. And, Michael, let me go back to you. Your initiative, your commitment, your vision, your dedication have literally changed the world and gone a long way to encourage the Americans to be convinced once again that there’s — we can do anything. We just have to remember who the hell we are. We’re the United States of America. There is nothing beyond our capacity when we act together. Folks, as a student of history, we’re the only nation in the world that’s come out of every major crisis we’ve entered stronger than we went in — every single time. Every single time. You know, this assembly in this room, you’re the leaders not only in America, you’re the world. The rest of the world looks to us. And it’s not about my being president. I give you my word. Think about it. If we didn’t lead, who the hell leads? Who fills the vacuum without America leading? That’s who we are. That’s our obligation. And that’s our — an incredible opportunity. So, folks, I really am optimistic. I really mean it. You listened, and I didn’t even go into all of the things that are going on in the rest of the world in terms of how they want to transition away from — from fossil fuels: want to use peaceful nuclear technology, a whole range of things, hydrogen. So many things are on the table. And we can do this. We really can. And we owe it to our children. And, quite frankly, we owe it to lead the world. If my mom was here, she’d say, “Joey, end it. Okay?” And I will. So, God bless you all. And may God protect our troops. Thank you very, very much. Every time — every time I’d walk out of my Grandfather Finnegan’s house up in Scranton, Pennsylvania, he’d yell, “Joey, keep the faith.” My grandmother would yell, “No, Joey, spread it.” Let’s spread the faith. Thank you. 5:26 P.M. EDT
My fellow leaders, today is the fourth time I’ve had the great honor of speaking to this assembly as president of the United States. It will be my last. I’ve seen a remarkable sweep of history. I was first elected to office in the United States of America as a U.S. senator in 1972. Now, I know I look like I’m only 40. I know that. I was 29 years old. Back then, we were living through an inflection point, a moment of tension and uncertainty. The world was divided by the Cold War. The Middle East was headed toward war. America was at war in Vietnam, and at that point, the longest war in America’s history. Our country was divided and angry, and there were questions about our staying power and our future. But even then, I entered public life not out of despair but out of optimism. The United States and the world got through that moment. It wasn’t easy or simple or without significant setbacks. But we would go on to reduce the threat of nuclear weapons throughout the — through arms control and then go on to bring the Cold War itself to an end. Israel and Egypt went to war but then forged a historic peace. We ended the war in Vietnam. The — last year, in Hanoi, I was — met with the Vietnamese leadership, and we elevated our partnership to the highest level. It’s a testament to the resilience of the human spirit and the capacity for reconciliation that today the United States and Vietnam are partners and friends, and it’s proof that even from the horrors of war there is a way forward. Things can get better. We should never forget that. I have seen that throughout my career. In the 1980s, I spoke out against apartheid in South Africa, and then I watched the racist regime fall. In the 1990s, I worked to hold Milošević accountable for war crimes. He was held accountable. At home, I wrote and passed the Violence Against Women Act to end the scourge of violence against women and girls not only in America but across the world, as many of you have as well. But we have so much more to do, especially against rape and sexual violence as weapons of war and terror. We were attacked on 9/11 by Al-Qaeda and Osama bin Laden. We brought him justice. Then I came to the presidency in another moment in a crisis and uncertainty. I believed America had to look forward. New challenges, new threats, new opportunities were in front of us. We needed to put ourselves in a position to see the threats, to deal with the challenges, and to seize the opportunities as well. We needed to end the era of war that began on 9/11. As vice president to President Obama, he asked me to work to wind down the military operations in Iraq. And we did, painful as it was. When I came to office as president, Afghanistan had replaced Vietnam as America’s longest war. I was determined to end it, and I did. It was a hard decision but the right decision. Four American presidents had faced that decision, but I was determined not to leave it to the fifth. It was a decision accompanied by tragedy. Thirteen brave Americans lost their lives along with hundreds of Afghans in a suicide bomb. I think those lost lives — I think of them every day. I think of all the 2,461 U.S. military deaths over a long 20 years of that war. 20,744 American servicemen wounded in action. I think of their service, their sacrifice, and their heroism. I know other countries lost their own men and women fighting alongside us. We honor their sacrifices as well. To face the future, I was also determined to rebuild my country’s alliances and partnerships to a level not previously seen. We did — we did just that, from traditional treaty alliances to new partnerships like the Quad with the United States, Japan, Australia, and India. I know — I know many look at the world today and see difficulties and react with despair, but I do not. I won’t. As leaders, we don’t have the luxury. I recognize the challenges from Ukraine to Gaza to Sudan and beyond: war, hunger, terrorism, brutality, record displacement of people, a climate crisis, democracy at risk, strains within our societies, the promise of artificial intelligence and its significant risks. The list goes on. But maybe because of all I’ve seen and all we have done together over the decades, I have hope. I know there is a wa- — a way forward. In 1919, the Irish poet William Butler Yeats described a world, and I quote, where “Things fall apart; the centre cannot hold; Mere anarchy is loosed upon the world,” end of quote. Some may say those words describe the world not just in 1919 but in 2024. But I see a cri- — a critical distinction. In our time, the center has held. Leaders and people from every region and across the political spectrum have stood together. Turned the page — we turned the page on the worst pandemic in a century. We made sure COVID no longer controls our lives. We defended the U.N. Charter and ensured the survival of Ukraine as a free nation. My country made the largest investment in climate and clean energy ever, anywhere in history. There will always be forces that pull our countries apart and the world apart: aggression, extremism, chaos, and cynicism, a desire to retreat from the world and go it alone. Our task, our test is to make sure that the forces holding us together are stronger than those that are pulling us apart, that the principles of partnership that we came here each year to uphold can withstand the challenges, that the center holds once again. My fellow leaders, I truly believe we are at another inflection point in world history where the choices we make today will determine our future for decades to come. Will we stand behind the principles that unite us? We stand firm against aggression. We — will we end the conflicts that are raging today? Will we take on global challenges like climate change, hunger, and disease? Will we plan now for the opportunities and risk of a revolutionary new technologies? I want to talk today about each of those decisions and the actions, in my view, we must take. To start, each of us in this body has made a commitment to the principles of the U.N. Charter, to stand up against aggression. When Russia invaded Ukraine, we could have stood by and merely protested. But Vice President Harris and I understood that that was an assault on everything this institution is supposed to stand for. And so, at my direction, America stepped into the breach, providing massive security and economic and humanitarian assistance. Our NATO Allies and partners in 50-plus nations stood up as well. But most importantly, the Ukrainian people stood up. And I ask the people of this chamber to stand up for them. The good news is Putin’s war has failed in his — at his core aim. He set out to destroy Ukraine, but Ukraine is still free. He set out to weaken NATO, but NATO is bigger, stronger, and more united than ever before with two new members, Finland and Sweden. But we cannot let up. The world now has another choice to make: Will we sustain our support to help Ukraine win this war and preserve its freedom or walk away and let aggression be renewed and a nation be destroyed? I know my answer. We cannot grow weary. We cannot look away. And we will not let up on our support for Ukraine, not until Ukraine wins a just and durable peace on the U.N. Charter. We also need to uphold our principles as we seek to responsibly manage the competition with China so it does not veer into conflict. We stand ready to cooperate on urgent challenges for the good of our people and the people everywhere. We recently resumed cooperation with China to stop the flow of deadly synthetic narcotics. I appreciate the collaboration. It matters for the people in my country and mether- — many others around the world. On matters of conviction, the United States is unabashed, pushing back against unfair economic competition and against military coercion of other nations in — in the South China Sea, in maintaining peace and stability across the Taiwan Straits, in protecting our most advanced technologies so they cannot be used against us or any of our partners. At the same time, we’re going to continue to strengthen our network of alliances and partnerships across the Indo-Pacific. These partnerships are not against any nation. They are building blocks for a free, open, secure, and peaceful Indo-Pacific. We are also working to bring a greater measure of peace and stability to the Middle East. The world must not flinch from the horrors of October 7th. Any country — any country would have the right and responsibility to ensure that such an attack can never happen again. Thousands of armed Hamas terrorists invaded a sovereign state, slaughtering and massacring more than 1,200 people, including 46 Americans, in their homes and at a music festival; despis- — despicable acts of sexual violence; 250 innocents taken hostage. I’ve met with the families of those hostages. I’ve grieved with them. They’re going through hell. Innocent civilians in Gaza are also going through hell. Thousands and thousands killed, including aid workers. Too many families dislocated, crowding into tents, facing a dire humanitarian situation. They didn’t ask for this war that Hamas started. I put forward with Qatar and Egypt a ceasefire and hostage deal. It’s been endorsed by the U.N. Security Council. Now is the time for the parties to finalize its terms, bring the hostages home, en- — secure security for Israel, and Gaza free of Ha- — of Hamas’ grip, ease the suffering in Gaza, and end this war. On October 7th — — since October 7, we have also been determined to prevent a wider war that engulfs the entire region. Hezbollah, unprovoked, joined the October 7th attack launching rockets into Israel. Almost a year later, too many on each side of the Israeli-Lebanon border remain displaced. Full-scale war is not in anyone’s interest. Even as the situation has escalated, a diplomatic solution is still possible. In fact, it remains the only path to lasting security to allow the residents from both countries to return to their homes on the border safely. And that’s what working — that’s what we’re working tirelessly to achieve. As we look ahead, we must also address the rise of violence against innocent Palestinians on the West Bank and set the conditions for a better future, including a two-state solution, where the world — where Israel enjoys security and peace and full recognition and normalized relations with all its neighbors, where Palestinians live in security, dignity, and self-determination in a state of their own. Progress toward peace will put us in a stronger position to deal with the ongoing threat posed by Iran. Together, we must deny oxygen to terrorists — to its terrorist proxies, which have called for more October 7ths, and ensure that Iran will never, ever obtain a nuclear weapon. Gaza is not the only conflict that deserves our outrage. In Sudan, a bloody civil war unleashed one of the world’s worst humanitarian crises: eight million — eight million on the brink of famine, hundreds of thousands already there, atrocities in Darfur and elsewhere. The United States has led the world in providing humanitarian aid to Sudan. And with our partners, we have led diplomatic talks to try to silence the guns and avort — and avert a wider famine. The world needs to stop arming the generals, to speak with one voice and tell them: Stop tearing your country apart. Stop blocking aid to the Sudanese people. End this war now. But people need more than the absence of war. They need the chance — the chance to live in dignity. They need to be protected from the ravages of climate change, hunger, and disease. Our administration has arri- — has invested over $150 billion to make progress and other Sustainable Development Goals. It includes $20 billion for food security and over $50 billion for global health. We’ve mobilized billions more in private-sector investment. We’ve taken the most ambitious climate actions in history. We’ve moved to rejoin the Paris Agreement on day one. And today, my country is finally on track to cut emissions in half by 2030, on track to honor my pledge to quadruple climate financing to developing nations with $11 billion thus far this year. We’ve rejoined the World Health Organization and donated nearly 700 million doses of COVID vaccine to 117 countries. We must now move quickly to face mpox outbreak in Africa. We are prepared to commit $500 million to help African countries prevent and respond to mpox and to donate 1 million doses of mpox vaccine now. We call on our partners to match our pledge and make this a billion-dollar commitment to the people of Africa. Beyond the core necessities of food and health, the United States, the G7, and our partners have embarked on an ambitious initiative to mobilize and deliver significant financing to the developing world. We are working to help countries build out their infrastructure, to clean energy transition, to their digital transformation to lay new economic foundations for a prosperous future. It’s called the Partnership for Global Infrastructure and Investment. We’ve already starting to see the fruits of this emerge in Southern Africa and in Southeast A- — Asia and in the Americas. We have to keep it going. I want to get things done together. In order to do that, we must build a stronger, more effective, and more inclusive United Nations. The U.N. needs to adapt to bring in new voices and new perspectives. That’s why we support reforming and expanding the membership of the U.N. Security Council. My U.N. ambassador just laid out our detailed vision to reflect today’s world, not yesterday’s. It’s time to move forward. And the Security Council, like the U.N. itself, needs to get back to the job of making peace; of brokering deals to end wars and suffering; th- — — and to stop the spread of the most dangerous weapons; of stabilizing troubled regions in East Africa — from East Africa to Haiti, to Kenya-led mission that’s working alongside the Haitian people to turn the tide. We also have a responsibility to prepare our citizens for the future. We’ll see more technological change, I argue, in the next 2 to 10 years than we have in the last 50 years. Artificial intelligence is going to change our ways of life, our ways of work, and our ways of war. It could usher in scientific progress at a pace never seen before. And much of it could make our lives better. But AI also brings profound risks, from deepfakes to disinformation to novel pathogens to bioweapons. We have worked at home and abroad to define the new norms and standards. This year, we achieved the first-ever General Assembly resolution on AI to start developing global rules — global rules of the road. We also announced a Declaration of — on the Responsible — Responsible Use of AI, joined by 60 countries in this chamber. But let’s be honest. This is just the tip of the iceberg of what we need to do to manage this new technology. Nothing is certain about how AI will evolve or how it will be deployed. No one knows all the answers. But my fellow leaders, it’s with humility I offer two questions. First: How do we as an international community govern AI? As countries and companies race to uncertain frontiers, we need an equally urgent effort to ensure AI’s safety, security, and trustworthiness. As AI grows more powerful, it must grow also — it also must grow more responsive to our collective needs and values. The benefits of all must be shared equitably. It should be harnessed to narrow, not deepen, digital divides. Second: Will we ensure that AI supports, rather than undermines, the core principles that human life has value and all humans deserve dignity? We must make certain that the awesome capabilities of AI will be used to uplift and empower everyday people, not to give dictators more powerful shackles on human — on the human spirit. In the years ahead, there wa- — they may be — may well be no greater test of our leadership than how we deal with AI. Let me close with this. Even as we navigate so much change, one thing must not change: We must never forget who we’re here to represent. “We the People.” These are the first words of our Constitution, the very idea of America. And they inspired the opening words of the U.N. Charter. I’ve made the preservation of democracy the central cause of my presidency. This summer, I faced a decision whether to seek a second term as president. It was a difficult decision. Being president has been the honor of my life. There is so much more I want to get done. But as much as I love the job, I love my country more. I decided, after 50 years of public service, it’s time for a new generation of leadership to take my nation forward. My fellow leaders, let us never forget, some things are more important than staying in power. It’s your people — — it’s your people that matter the most. Never forget, we are here to serve the people, not the other way around. Because the future will be — the future will be won by those who unleash the full potential of their people to breathe free, to think freely, to innovate, to educate, to live and love openly without fear. That’s the soul of democracy. It does not belong to any one country. I’ve seen it all around the world in the brave men and women who ended apartheid, brought down the Berlin Wall, fight today for freedom and justice and dignity. We saw it — that universal yearning for rights and freedom — in Venezuela, where millions cast their vote for change. It hasn’t been recognized, but it can’t be denied. The world knows the truth. We saw it in Uganda LBGT activists demanding safety and recognition of their common humanity. We see it in citizens across the world peacefully choosing their future — from Ghana to India to South Korea, nations representing one quarter of humanity who will hold elections this year alone. It’s remarkable, the power of “We the People,” that makes me more optimistic about the future than I’ve ever been since I was first elected to the United States Senate in 1972. Every age faces its challenges. I saw it as a young man. I see it today. But we are stronger than we think. We’re stronger together than alone. And what the people call “impossible” is just an illusion. Nelson Mandela taught us, and I quote, “It always seems impossible until it’s done.” “It always seems impossible until it’s done.” My fellow leaders, there is nothing that’s beyond our capacity if we work together. Let’s work together. God bless you all. And may God protect all those who seek peace. Thank you. 10:36 A.M. EDT
Your markers here. Hello, everyone. We got everybody? Well, good afternoon. And this is a very good afternoon — a very good afternoon. Today, we’re bringing home Paul, Evan, Alsu, and Vladimir — three American citizens and one American green-card holder. All four have been imprisoned unjustly in Russia: Paul for nearly six years, Vladimir since 2022, Evan since March of 2023, and Alsu since October of 2023. Russian authorities arrested them, convicted them in show trials, and sentenced them to long prison terms with absolutely no legitimate reason whatsoever. None. Paul, a former Marine, who was in Russia for a wedding. Evan, a journalist, with the Russian — in Russia — was a — was in Russia assigned by the Wall Street Journal. Alsu, also a journalist, was in Russia to see family. All three falsely accused of being spies. And Vladimir, who is a Russian citizen by birth and holds an American green card, is a Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist and was a pallbearer at my friend John McCain’s funeral with me. He spoke out against Putin’s regime, and for that he was convicted of treason. And now their brutal ordeal is over, and they’re free. Moments ago, the families and I were able to speak to them on the telephone from the Oval Office. They’re out of Russia. Earlier today, they were flown to Turkey. And soon, they’ll be wheels up on their way home to see their families. This is an incredible relief for all the family members gathered here. And it’s a relief to the friends and colleagues all across the country who’ve been praying for this day for a long time. The deal that made this possible was a feat of diplomacy and friendship — friendship. Multiple countries helped get this done. They joined a difficult, complex negotiations at my request. And I personally thank them all again. And I’ve thanked them personally, and I’ll thank them again. All told, Russia has released 16 prisoners. Eight Russians who were being held in the West will be sent home as well. Those 16 prisoners from Russia have — that Russia has released include 4 Americans, 5 Germans, 7 Russian citizens who were political prisoners in their own country. One of those Russians runs the human rights organization Memorial, which won a Nobel Prize in 2022. Putin threw him in prison for voicing opposition to the war in Ukraine. Four others worked with Aleksey Navalny, the political opposition leader who died in Russian prison this year. Now they can live safely abroad and continue their work of advocating for democracy if they so choose. This deal would not have been made possible without our allies Germany, Poland, Slovenia, Norway, and Turkey. They all stepped up, and they stood with us. They stood with us, and they made bold and brave decisions, released prisoners being held in their countries who were justifiably being held, and provided logistical support to get the Americans home. So, for anyone who questions whether allies matter, they do. They matter. And today is a powerful example of why it’s vital to have friends in this world — friends you can trust, work with, and depend upon, especially on matters of great consequence and sensitivity like this. Our alliances make our people safer, and we began to see that again today. Let me say this. It says a lot about the United States that we work relentlessly to free Americans who are unjustly held around the world. It also says a lot about us that this deal includes the release of Russian political prisoners. They stood up for democracy and human rights. Their own leaders threw them in prison. The United States helped secure their release as well. That’s who we are in the United States. We stand for freedom, for liberty, for justice — not only for our own people but for others as well. And that’s why all Americans can take pride in what we’ve achieved today. I want to thank everyone in my administration who helped make this happen. Our work did not start just on day one. It started before day one. During the transition, I instructed our national security team to dig into all the cases of hostages being wrongfully detained, which were inherently — well, we inherited them from the pri- — the prior administration. I wanted to make sure we’d hit the ground running, and we did. As of today, my administration has brought home over 70 Americans who were wrongfully detained and held hostage abroad, many since before I took office. Additionally, I issued an executive order in 2022 authorizing penalties like sanctions and travel bans on those who hold Americans against their will. And my State Department has introduced new warnings for Americans about the risk of being wrongfully detained by a foreign government. Deals like this one come with tough calls, and there are never any guarantees. But there’s nothing that matters more to me than protecting Americans at home and abroad. And so, we’ll continue to work for the release of all wrongfully detained Americans around the world. Let me end where I began — with Paul, Evan, and Alsu, Vladimir, and their families. They never gave up hope. We can’t imagine what they’ve been through — all of you. Matter of fact, this lady right here, I think, was living in the Oval Office with us for a while. But all kidding aside, I can’t imagine their joy right now. They’re home. Tomorrow is a big day — the 13th birthday of Miriam. Miriam, where are you? Come here. You all know we have a tradition in the Biden family. We sing “Happy Birthday” on any birthday. You ready? All of you. Remember, no serious guys until you’re 30. God love you. She’s Alsu’s daughter. Now she gets to celebrate with her mom. That’s what this is all about: Families able to be together again, like they should have been all along. So, I want to thank you again, to everyone who did their part. In just a few hours, we’ll welcome home our fellow Americans. We’re looking forward to that. God willing, we’re going to be out at Andrews and get that done. So, thank you, thank you, thank you. And this is a good day.
Well, I’m sure my fellow leaders are tired of hearing from all of us, but we had an important thing to do today, and it’s a way to close this conference. Good afternoon, everyone. When Putin launched his brutal war over two years ago, I promised President Zelenskyy the United States and our allies and our partners would stand with him for the people of Ukraine as they defended their country. Since then, all of you — all my fellow leaders — we built a global coalition to support Ukraine, supplied economic and humanitarian support, supplied weapons that Ukraine needs to defend itself. And two days ago, I announced a historic donation of air defense equipment to protect Ukrainian cities, troops, and — from Russian missiles. And here today, with all these important people behind me, we take another important step in our collective support for Ukraine. We refer to it as the “Ukraine Compact,” and here’s how it works. Last year, the G7 nations signed into a decl- — signed on to a declaration to protect Ukraine long term, not just for the duration of this war but beyond, after they win. Twenty-five additional countries quickly joined them and pledged to negotiate and sign a bilateral security agreement with Ukraine. Now, one year later, more than 20 companies pl- — coun- –countries plus the European Union have completed and signed these agreements. And more countries are finalizing theirs as we speak. This compact brings all those countries together in a unified, coordinated, and comprehensive architecture to support Ukraine not just for now but for years in the future. In the short term, we’ll continue to supply Ukraine with the weapons and munitions and training they need to repel Russian forces. In the medium term, we’ll help build a future force that has the strength and the capabilities both to defend Ukraine and deter further aggression. In the long term, after this war is over, if Putin ever tries it again, all the countries that endorsed the compact have pledged to have Ukraine’s back just like we have it now. You heard me say it before: We’re building a bridge to NATO for Ukraine, a pathway leading to an — an eventual membership as they continue to implement important domestic reforms. This compact, which is on the stage here, is a central piece of that bridge. What happens to Ukraine matters. It matters to all of Europe. It matters to NATO. Quite frankly, it matters to the whole world. We’re united against Putin’s senseless and brutal war. We are united behind Ukraine as it fights to defend its freedom and its future. We’re united behind a vision of the world where free countries like Ukraine do not have to fear aggression from a brutal tyrant next door. I want to commend Ukrainian fr- — armed forces, as their defense secretary and leaders are here as well, and the Ukrainian people. You’re incredible. And through all of your country, you’re incredible — their courage, the determination, the sacrifices they’ve made. And I commend all the nations that stepped up when it counted to stand with Ukraine. As I’ve said before, Russia will not prevail in this war. Ukraine will prevail in this war. And we will stand with them every single step of the way. That’s what the compact says loudly and clearly. And now I want to hand it over to the president of Ukraine, who has as much courage as he has determination. Ladies and gentlemen, President Putin — — President Putin — he’s going to beat President Putin — President Zelenskyy. I’m so focused on beating Putin, we got to worry about it. Anyway, Mr. President. You are a hell of a lot better.
Good evening. Welcome. In 1949, when leaders of 12 countries, including President Truman, came together in this very room, history was watching. It had been four years since the surrender of the Axis powers and the end of the most devastating world war the world had ever, ever known. Here, these 12 leaders gathered to make a sacred pledge to defend each other against aggression, provide their collective security, and to answer threats as one, because they knew to prevent future wars, to protect democracies, to lay the groundwork for a lasting peace and prosperity, they needed a new approach. They needed to combine their strengths. They needed an alliance. And here, they signed the Washington Treaty and created the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, the single greatest, most effective defensive alliance in the history of the world. Mr. Secretary-General, leaders of NATO countries, foreign and defense ministers, representatives from partner nations and the European Union, and members of Congress, distinguished guests, welcome — welcome to the 2024 NATO Summit. It’s a pleasure. It’s a pleasure to host you in this milestone year to look back with pride at all we’ve achieved and look ahead to our shared future with strength and with resolve. Together, we rebuilt Europe from the ruins of war, held high the torch of liberty during long decades of the Cold War. When former adversaries became fellow democracies, we welcomed them into the Alliance. When war broke out in the Balkans, we intervened to restore peace and stop ethnic cleansing. And when the United States was attacked on September 11th, our NATO Allies — all of you — stood with us, invoking Article 5 for the first time in NATO history, treating an attack on us as an attack on all of us — a breathtaking display of friendship that the American people will never ever, ever forget. Through all this history, when great changes occurred, people would ask, “Can NATO adapt?” And every time, we proved we could adapt. And we did: evolving our strategies to stay ahead of threats, reaching out to new partners to increase our effectiveness. And here with us — and here with us today are countries from the Indo-Pacific region. They’re here because they have a stake in our success and we have a stake in theirs. Today, NATO is more powerful than ever: 32 nations strong. For years, Finland and Sweden were among our closest partners. Now they have chosen to officially join NATO. And because of the power and meaning of Article 5 guarantee — that’s the reason. It was the most important aspect of the Alliance in 1949, and it is still the most important aspect. I’d also note Finland and Sweden joined the Alliance not just because their leaders sought it, because their citizens called for it in overwhelming numbers. And remember: NATO’s character is fundamentally democratic. Always has been and always must continue to be. And today, NATO is better resourced than it ever has been. I want to pause on this because it’s significant. In the year 2020, the year I was — the year I was elected president, only nine NATO Allies were spending 2 percent of their defense — GDP on defense. This year, 23 will spend at least 2 percent. And some will spend more than that. And the remaining countries that have not yet reached that milestone will get there soon. It’s remarkable progress — proof that our commitment is broad and deep, that we’re ready, that we’re willing, and we’re able to deter aggression and defend every inch of NATO territory across every domain: land, air, sea, cyber, and space. My friends, it’s good that we’re stronger than ever, because this moment in history calls for our collective strength. Autocrats want to overturn global order, which has by and large kept for nearly 80 years and counting. Terrorist groups continue to plot evil schemes to cause mayhem and chaos and suffering. In Europe, Putin’s war of aggression against Ukraine continues. And Putin wants nothing less — nothing less than Ukraine’s total subjugation; to end Ukraine’s democracy; to destroy Uraine’s cul- — Uraine — Ukraine’s culture; and to wipe Ukraine off the map. And we know Putin won’t stop at Ukraine. But make no mistake, Ukraine can and will stop Putin — — especially with our full, collective support. And they have our full support. Even before Russian bombs were falling on Ukraine, the Alliance acted. Or- — I ordered the U.S. reinforcements at NATO’s eastern flank — more troops, more aircraft, more capabilities. And now the United States has more than 100,000 troops on the continent of Europe. NATO moved swiftly as well, not only reinforcing the four existing battle groups of the east but also adding four more in Bulgaria, Hungary, Romania, and Slovakia, essentially doubling NATO’s strength on the eastern flank. Together, we’ve built a global coalition to stand with Ukraine. Together, we’ve provided significant economic and humanitarian assistance. And together, we’ve supplied Ukraine with weapons it needs to defend itself: tanks, armored fighting vehicles, air defense systems, long-range missiles, and millions of munitions. The United States and nearly two dozen Allied partners have signed the bilateral security agreements with Ukraine and more countries will follow. Today, I’m announcing the historic donation of air defense equipment for Ukraine. The United States, Germany, the Netherlands, Romania, and Italy will provide Ukraine with the equipment for five additional strategic air defense systems. And in the coming months, the United States and our partners intend to provide Ukraine with dozens of additional tactical air defense systems. The United States will make sure that when we export critical air defense interceptors, Ukraine goes to the front of the line. They will get this assistance before anyone else gets it. All told, Ukraine will receive hundreds of additional interceptors over the next year, helping protect Ukrainian cities against Russian missiles and Ukrainian troops facing air attacks on the front lines. Make no mistake, Russia is failing in this war. More than two years into Putin’s war of choice, his losses are staggering: more than 350,000 Russian troops dead or wounded; nearly 1 million Russians, many of them young people, have left Russia because they no longer see a future in Russia. And Kyiv — remember, fellows and ladies — was supposed to fall in five days. Remember? Well, it’s still standing two and a half years later and will continue to stand. All the Allies knew that before this war, Putin thought NATO would break. Today, NATO is stronger than it’s ever been in its history. When this senseless war began, Ukraine was a free country. Today, it is still a free country, and the war will end with Ukraine remaining a free and independent country. Russia will not prevail. Ukraine will prevail. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a pivotal moment for Europe, for the transatlantic community, and, I might add, for the world. Let’s remember: The fact that NATO remains the bulwark of global security did not happen by accident. It wasn’t inevitable. Again and again, at critical moments, we chose unity over disunion, progress over retreat, freedom over tyranny, and hope over fear. Again and again, we stood behind our shared vision of a peaceful and prosperous transatlantic community. Here at this summit, we gather to proclaim NATO is ready and able to secure that vision today and well into the future. Let me say this. An overwhelming bipartisan majority of Americans understand that NATO makes us all safer. The fact that both Democratic and Republican parties are represented here today is a testament to that fact. The American people know that all the progress we’ve made in the past 75 years has happened behind the shield of NATO. And the American people understand what would happen if there was no NATO: another war in Europe, American troops fighting and dying, dictators spreading chaos, economic collapse, catastrophe. Americans, they know we’re stronger with our friends. And we understand this is a sacred obligation. As President Reagan put it, and I quote, “If our fellow democracies are not secure, we cannot be secure. If you are threatened, we are threatened. And if you are not at peace, we cannot be at peace.” Reagan knew it then, and we know it now. Our nations will continue to keep faith with what we’ve pledged in the years to come. Now, if you’ll indulge me, I’d like to end my remarks a slightly unusual way. NATO is an alliance of nations but also made up of leaders. And one person in particular has done an extraordinary job leading NATO for the last decade: Secretary-General Stoltenberg. Will you come forward? So much of the progress we’ve made in the Alliance is thanks to the secretary. He’s a man of integrity and intellectual rigor, a calm temperament in a moment of crisis, a consummate diplomat who works with leaders across the political spectrum and always finds a way to keep us moving forward. Mr. Secretary, you’ve guided this alliance through one of the most consequential periods in its history. I realize I — as I was talking to your wife — I personally asked you to extend your service. Forgive me. And you put your own plans on hold. When the Russian war on Ukraine began, you didn’t hesitate. Today, NATO is stronger, smarter, and more energized than when you began. And a billion people across Europe and North America and, indeed, the whole world will reap the rewards of your labor for years to come in the form of security, opportunity, and greater freedoms. For these reasons, I am pleased to award you the highest civilian honor that the United States can bestow: the Presidential Medal of Freedom. Ask the mili- — — military aide to come forward — — and ask him to read the citation.
Thank you very much. Hello, everyone. You may have heard me say this before, but I think we stand at an inflection point in history that occurs every five or six or seven generations. And the decisions, I think, we make now are going to determine the course of our future for the next five or six decades. And I truly believe the infrastructure we’re building with the investments we’re making through PGI are going to help that set that course on a fundamentally stronger path than otherwise would be the case. Just look at the progress we’ve made over the past — over the last year. The Lobito Corridor in sub-Saharan Africa. We’ve mobilized $33 billion for clean energy projects, which will bring electricity — clean electricity to 1.5 million families who had no access to it before. We’ve broken ground on a new data center in Ghana and announced another in Kenya. We’re laying fiber-optic cables to support secure and affordable and reliable connectivity. And we’re developing the first railway line to extend from Angola to — to DRC, Zambia to the Indian Ocean. I think this is a gamechanger. I really do. That economy is going to have over two — billions of people very shortly. And it really is a gamechanger. We’re already seeing goods that normally take up to 45 days to transport now taking only 40 — 40 hours. And think of the transforma- — transformative — how transformative this is for trade, agribusiness, farming, food security as a whole. I want to thank the Prime Minister, Meloni, for partnering with us and the EU on this project. I also want to thank President Kishida — Prime Minister Kishida, I should say. I just demoted him. In April, we both came together with President Marcos to launch the Luzon Economic Corridor in the Philippines. It’s happening in the Pacific as well. And already, we’ve mobilized capital for sectors that are critical to our future: clean energy, agriculture, semiconductors, and so much more. All told, I’m proud to announce the United States has mobilized more than $60 billion in investments around the world thus far. That’s double where we were last year. Now, we’ve still got a long way to go to close the infrastructure gap that holds too many countries back. But together, I think we’re showing that democracies can deliver. This is an important moment to be able to do that. And the — and when you’re that — when you focus on people, transparency, and high standards, on quality and sustainability, it doesn’t inhibit investment, it attracts investment. I got criticized at home for asking: When the federal government invests in something, does that discourage or encourage the private sector to invest? Ninety-six percent of the people asked said it encourages investment, not discourages investment. It attracts investment. And people around this table are proving that, I would argue. That includes Mr. Fink — I ca- — call you Larry; I’m calling you Mr. Fink — but we go back a long way — BlackRock and Mr. Ma- — Mr. Nadella of Microsoft, an outfit that we know well at home. Today, BlackRock and other partners are committing to invest at least $4 billion — $4 billion — toward infrastructure projects that align with our PGI priorities. And Microsoft — Microsoft recently announced $5 billion investment into digital infrastructure, including $1 billion for a data center in Kenya. That’s a really big deal. This is because the G7 and our partners created opportunities for sound investments in infrastructure. And we mobilized our own capital and created efficient ways to de-risk projects so the private sector could get on board more easily. And you are getting on board, and it’s not just U.S. companies. So, let me close with this. During the G7 summit, we’re addressing a range of issues: clean energy, economic development, global security, food security, orderly migration, digital connectivity. And infrastructure is central to our progress across all these challenges — every one of them. I remember when I introduced the infrastructure bill at home, they said we couldn’t get it done. It was only a trillion 300 billion dollars, but we got it passed. And it’s really having an impact on development at home. But this is bigger than that, in a sense. It’s — we’re talking about the world. So, today, we began PGI’s third year. And I would strongly hope we can keep up the momentum. Let’s keep finding opportunities to invest in quality physical, digital, and energy infrastructure. Let’s keep partnering with each other and the private sector, with the World Bank, with countries around the world to mobilize even more capital. To go from billions — we have to get to the trillions that are needed, and that’s what’s going to be needed to close this infrastructure gap. And at this inflection point, let’s keep forging a better future together, because I’m confident we can do it. I know I get accused of being overly optimistic, but I am confident this could be a significant, significant breakthrough. And I thank you again for your partnership, your leadership. And, with that, Giorgia, I turn it back to you. 5:52 P.M. CEST
The hour had nearly come. Monday, June 5th, 1944. The evil of Third Reich was devastating the world. Nazi Germany had subjugated the once-free nations of Europe through brute force, lies, and twisted ideology of racial superiority. Millions of Jews murdered in the Holocaust. Millions of others killed by bombs, bullets, bloody warfare. Hitler and those with him thought democracies were weak, that the future belonged to dictators. Here, on the coast of Normandy, the battle between freedom and tyranny would be joined. Here, on that June morning, the testing was at hand. President Macron, Mrs. Macron, Secretary Austin, Secretary Blinken, distinguished guests. Most of all, our honored veterans, who met that test to the ages — a test of ages to that moment 80 years ago — 80 years ago today. On behalf of the American people and as Commander-in-Chief, it’s the highest honor to be able to salute you here in Normandy once more — all of you. God love you. Winston Churchill called what happened here, quote, “the greatest, most complicated operation ever,” end of quote. After years of planning, Operation Overlord was ready to launch just as soon as the weather turned. Across the choppy Eng- — choppy Eng- — English Channel, the Supreme Commander of the Allies, Dwight D. Eisenhower, waited. The largest force ever of its kind, built by 12 nations — men, guns, planes, naval craft of every description — waited. The world, captive and free, waited. Finally, Eisenhower’s forecasters said there was a window in the weather. It would open briefly on Tuesday the 6th of June. The general weighed the options and gave the order: At dawn, the Allies would strike. The “Great Crusade” to free Europe from tyranny would begin. That night, General Eisenhower drove to the English town of Newbury to visit paratroopers of the 101st Airborne. They were men from all over America. It was estimated that 80 percent of them would be killed within hours. That was the estimate. But they were brave, they were resolute, and they were ready. One soldier told General Eisenhower, quote, “Don’t worry, sor- — sir. The 101st is on the job. Everything will be taken care of.” That’s what he said. And because of their courage and their resolve, because of the courage and resolve of their allies, it was taken care of. From the sea and sky, nearly 160,000 Allied troops descended on Normandy. Many, to state the obvious, never came home. Many survived that “longest day,” kept on fighting for months until victory was finally won. And a few, a noble band of brothers, are here with us today. Kenneth Blaine Smith is here. On that day, under heavy artillery fire, he operated a range finder and radar on the first American ship to arrive at Normandy’s coast, providing direct gunfire support for the Rangers scaling the cliffs of Pointe du Hoc on their daring mission to take out the German batteries. Bob Gibson is here. He landed on Utah Beach about 10 hours after the invasion began. Bullets flying everywhere. Tracers lighting up the sky. Bob drove an M4 tractor with an anti-aircraft gun mounted on top, providing critical protection for the infantry against the German air force. On that day and for many days after, he continued. Ben Miller is here. A medic with the 82nd Airborne. At 3:00 a.m. on June 6th, he and 13 other medics flew over the Channel in a rickety glider. Its wings were ripped off by giant poles that the Germans buried halfway in the ground to stop them from landing. They crashed, but they survived. And they did their duty: dragging injured soldiers to safety, treating wounds, saving lives while the battle raged. Every soldier who stormed the beach, who dropped by parachute or landed by glider; every sailor who manned the thousands of ships and landing craft; every aviator who destroyed German-controlled air fields, bridges, and railroads — all — all were backed by other brave Americans, including hundreds of thousands of people of color and women who courageously served despite unjust limitations on what they could do for their nation. Louis Brown is here. Part of the “Red Ball Express,” a truck convoy made up mostly of African American drivers. They landed at Normandy in the wake of D-Day. They rushed supplies to the rapidly advancing frontlines. Woody Woodhouse is here. Members of the legendary Tuskegee Airmen, who flew over 15,000 sorties during the war. Marjorie Stone is here. She enlisted in the women’s branch of the Naval Reserve, became an aircraft mechanic, spent the war keeping American planes and pilots in the air. Theirs has always been the story of America. Just walk the rows of this cemetery, as I have. Nearly 10,000 heroes buried side by side, officers and enlisted, immigrants and native-born. Different races, different faiths, but all Americans. All served with honor when America and the world needed them most. Millions back home did their part as well. From coast to coast, Americans found countless ways to pitch in. They understood our democracy is only as strong as all of us make it, together. The men who fought here became heroes not because they were the strongest or toughest or were fiercest — although they were — but because they were given an audacious mission knowing — every one of them knew the probability of dying was real, but they did it anyway. They knew, beyond any doubt, there are things that are worth fighting and dying for. Freedom is worth it. Democracy is worth it. America is worth it. The world is worth it — then, now, and always. The war in Europe didn’t end for another 11 months. But here the tide turned in our favor. Here we proved the forces of liberty are stronger than the forces of conquest. Here we proved that the ideals of our democracy are stronger than any army or combination of armies in the entire world. We proved something else here as well: the unbreakable unity of the Allies. Here with us are men who served alongside the Americans that day, wearing different flags on their arms but fighting with the same courage, for the same purpose. What the Allies did together 80 years ago far surpassed anything we could have done on our own. It was a powerful illustration of how alliances — real alliances — make us stronger — a lesson that I pray we Americans never forget. Together, we won the war. We rebuilt Europe, including our former enemies. It was an investment in what became shared and a prosperous future. We established NATO, the greatest military alliance in the history of the world. And over time — — you got it; it is — and over time, we brought more nations into NATO — the NATO Alliance, including the newest members: Finland and Sweden. Today, NATO stands at 32 countries strong. And NATO is more united than ever and even more prepared to keep the peace, deter aggression, defend freedom all around the world. America has invested in our alliances and forged new ones — not simply out of altruism but out of our own self-interest as well. America’s unique ability to bring countries together is an un- — undeniable source of our strength and our power. Isolationism was not the answer 80 years ago, and it is not the answer today. We know the dark forces that these heroes fought against 80 years ago. They never fade. Aggression and greed, the desire to dominate and control, to change borders by force — these are perennial. And the struggle between a dictatorship and freedom is unending. Here, in Europe, we see one stark example. Ukraine has been invaded by a tyrant bent on domination. Ukrainians are fighting with extraordinary courage, suffering great losses, but never backing down. They’ve inflicted on the Russian aggressors — they’ve suffered tremendous losses, Russia. The numbers are staggering — 350,000 Russian troops dead or wounded. Nearly 1 million people have left Russia because they can no longer see a future in Russia. The United States and NATO and a coalition of more than 50 countries standing strong with Ukraine. We will not walk away — — because if we do, Ukraine will be subjugated. And it will not end there. Ukraine’s neighbors will be threatened. All of Europe will be threatened. And make no mistake, the autocrats of the world are watching closely to see what happens in Ukraine, to see if we let this illegal aggression go unchecked. We cannot let that happen. To surrender to bullies, to bow down to dictators is simply unthinkable. Were we to do that, it means we’d be forgetting what happened here on these hallowed beaches. Make no mistake: We will not bow down. We will not forget. Let me end with this. History tells us freedom is not free. If you want to know the price of freedom, come here to Normandy. Come to Normandy and look. Go to the other cemeteries in Europe where our fallen heroes rest. Go back home to Arlington Cemetery. Tomorrow, I will pay respects at Pointe du Hoc. Go there as well and remember: The price of unchecked tyranny is the blood of the young and the brave. In their generation, in their hour of trial, the Allied forces of D-Day did their duty. Now the question for us is: In our hour of trial, will we do ours? We’re living in a time when democracy is more at risk across the world than at any point since the end of the World War Two — since these beaches were stormed in 1944. Now, we have to ask ourselves: Will we stand against tyranny, against evil, against crushing brutality of the iron fist? Will we stand for freedom? Will we defend democracy? Will we stand together? My answer is yes. And it only can be yes. We’re not far off from the time when the last living voices of those who fought and bled on D-Day will no longer be with us. So, we have a special obligation. We cannot let what happened here be lost in the silence of the years to come. We must remember it, must honor it, and live it. And we must remember: The fact that they were heroes here that day does not absolve us from what we have to do today. Democracy is never guaranteed. Every generation must preserve it, defend it, and fight for it. That’s the test of the ages. In memory of those who fought here, died here, literally saved the world here, let us be worthy of their sacrifice. Let us be the generation that when history is written about our time — in 10, 20, 30, 50, 80 years from now — it will be said: When the moment came, we met the moment. We stood strong. Our alliances were made stronger. And we saved democracy in our time as well. Thank you very much. And may God bless you all. And may God protect our troops. Thank you. 2:17 P.M. CEST
Hello, folks. Just checking it’s afternoon. Good afternoon. Before I begin my remarks, I just wanted to say a few words about what happened yesterday in New York City. The American principle that no one is above the law was reaffirmed. Donald Trump was given every opportunity to defend himself. It was a state case, not a federal case. And it was heard by a jury of 12 citizens — 12 Americans, 12 people like you. Like millions of Americans who served on juries, this jury was chosen the same way every jury in America is chosen. It was a process that Donald Trump’s attorney was part of. The jury heard five weeks of evidence — five weeks. And after careful deliberation, the jury reached a unanimous verdict. They found Donald Trump guilty on all 34 felony counts. Now he’ll be given the opportunity, as he should, to appeal that decision just like everyone else has that opportunity. That’s how the American system of justice works. And it’s reckless, it’s dangerous, and it’s irresponsible for anyone to say this was rigged just because they don’t like the verdict. Our justice system has endured for nearly 250 years, and it literally is the cornerstone of America — our justice system. The justice system should be respected, and we should never allow anyone to tear it down. It’s as simple as that. That’s America. That’s who we are. And that’s who we’ll always be, God willing. Now to another issue. I — I want to give an update on my efforts to end the crisis in Gaza. For the past several months, my negotiators of foreign policy, intelligence community, and the like have been relentlessly focused not just on a ceasefire that would eve- — that would inevitably be fragile and temporary but on a durable end to the war. That’s been the focus: a durable end to this war. One that brings all the hostages home, ensures Israel’s security, creates a better “day after” in Gaza without Hamas in power, and sets the stage for a political settlement that provides a better future for Israelis and Palestinians alike. Now, after intensive diplomacy carried out by my team and my many conversations with leaders of Israel, Qatar, and Egypt and other Middle Eastern countries, Israel has now offered — Israel has offered a comprehensive new proposal. It’s a roadmap to an enduring ceasefire and the release of all hostages. This proposal has been transmitted by Qatar to Hamas. Today, I want to lay out its terms for the American citizens and for the world. This new proposal has three phases — three. The first phase would last for six weeks. Here’s what it would include: a full and complete ceasefire; a withdrawal of Israeli forces from all populated areas of Gaza; a release of a number of hostages — including women, the elderly, the wounded — in exchange for the release of hundreds of Palestinian prisoners. There are American hostages who would be released at this stage, and we want them home. Additional, some remains of hostages who have been killed would be returned to their families, bringing some degree of closure to their terrible grief. Palestinians — civilians — would return to their homes and neighborhoods in all areas of Gaza, including in the north. Humanitarian assistance would surge with 600 trucks carrying aid into Gaza every single day. With a ceasefire, that aid could be safely and effectively distributed to all who need it. Hundreds of thousands of temporary shelters, including housing units, would be delivered by the international community. All of that and more would begin immediately — immediately. During the six weeks of ph- — of phase one, Israel and Hamas would negotiate the necessary arrangements to get to phase two, which is a permanent end to hostol- — to hostilities. Now, I’ll be straight with you. There are a number of details to negotiate to move from phase one to phase two. Israel will want to make sure its interests are protected. But the proposal says if the negotiations take longer than six weeks for phase one, the ceasefire will still continue as long as negotiations continue. And the United States, Egypt, and Qatar would work to ensure negotiations keep going — all agreements — all agreements — until all the agreements are reached and phase two is able to begin. Then phase two: There would be an exchange for the release of all remaining living hostages, including male soldiers; Israeli forces would withdraw from Gaza; and as long as Hamas lives up to its commitments, a temporary ceasefire would become, in the words of the propo- — the Israeli proposal, “the cessation of hostilities permanently,” end of quote. “Cessation of hostilities permanently.” Finally, in phase three, a major reconstruction plan for Ga- — for Gaza wou- — would commence. And any final remains of hostages who have been killed would be returned to their families. That’s the offer that’s now on the table and what we’ve been asking for. It’s what we need. The people of Israel should know they can make this offer without any further risk to their own security because they’ve devastated Hamas form- — forces over the past eight months. At this point, Hamas no longer is capable of carrying out another October 7th, which — one of the Israelis’ main objective in this war and, quite frankly, a righteous one. I know there are those in Israel who will not agree with this plan and will call for the war to continue indefinitely. Some — some are even in the government coalition. And they’ve made it clear: They want to occupy Gaza, they want to keep fighting for years, and the hostages are not a priority to them. Well, I’ve urged the leadership in Israel to stand behind this deal, despite whatever pressure comes. And to the people of Israel, let me say this. As someone whose had a lifelong commitment to Israel, as the only American president who has ever gone to Israel in a time of war, as someone who just sent the U.S. forces to directly defend Israel when it was attacked by Iran, I ask you to take a step back and think what will happen if this moment is lost. We can’t lose this moment. Indefinite war in pursuit of an unidentified notion of “total victory” will not bring Israel in — will not bring down — bog down — will only bog down Israel in Gaza, draining the economic, military, and human- — and human resources, and furthering Israel’s isolation in the world. That will not bring hostages home. That will not — not bring an enduring defeat of Hamas. That will not bring Israel lasting security. But a comprehensive approach that starts with this deal will bring hostages home and will lead to a more secure Israel. And once a ceasefire and hostage deal is concluded, it unlocks the possibility of a great deal more progress, including — including calm along Israel’s northern border with Lebanon. The United States will help forge a diplomatic resolution, one that ensures Israel’s security and allows people to safely return to their homes without fear of being attacked. With a deal, a rebuilding of Gaza will begin Arab nations and the international community, along with Palestinian and Israeli leaders, to get it done in a manner that does not allow Hamas to re-arm. And the United States will work with our partners to rebuild homes, schools, and hospitals in Gaza to help repair communities that were destroyed in the chaos of war. And with this deal, Israel could become more deeply integrated into the region, including — it’s no surprise to you all — including no — a po- — potential historic normalization agreement with Saudi Arabia. Israel could be part of a regional security network to counter the threat posed by Iran. All of this progress would make Israel more secure, with Israeli families no longer living in the shadow of a terrorist attack. And all of this would create the conditions for a different future and a better future for the Palestinian people, one of self-determination, dignity, security, and freedom. This path is available once the deal is struck. Israel will always have the right to defend itself against the threats to its security and to bring those responsible for October 7th to justice. And the United States will always ensure that Israel has what it needs to defend itself. If Hamas fails to fulfill its commitments under the deal, Israel can resume military operations. But Egypt and Qatar have assured me and they are continuing to work to ensure that Hamas doesn’t do that. And the United States will help ensure that Israel lives up to their obligations as well. That’s what this deal says. That’s what it says. And we’ll do our part. This is truly a decisive moment. Israel has made their proposal. Hamas says it wants a ceasefire. This deal is an opportunity to prove whether they really mean it. Hamas needs to take the deal. For months, people all over the world have called for a ceasefire. Now it’s time to raise your voices and to demand that Hasa- — Hamas come to the table, agrees to this deal, and ends this war that they began. Of course, there will be differences on the specific details that need to be worked out. That’s natural. If Hamas comes to negotiate ready to deal, then Israel negotiations must be given a mandate, the necessary flexibility to close that deal. The past eight months have marked heartbreaking pain: pain of those whose loved ones were slaughtered by Hamas terrorists on October 7th; hostages and their families waiting in anguish; ordinary Israelis whose lives were forever marked by the shattering event of Hamas’s sexual violence and ruthless brutality. And the Palestinian people have endured sheer hell in this war. Too many innocent people have been killed, including thousands of children. Far too many have been badly wounded. We all saw the terrible images from the deadly fire in Rafah earlier this week following an Israeli strike against — targeting Hamas. And even as we work to surge assistance to Gaza, with 1,800 trucks delivering supplies these last five days — 1,800 — the humanitarian crisis still remains. I know this is a subject on which people in this country feel deep, passionate convictions. And so do I. This has been one of the hardest, most complicated problems in the world. There’s nothing easy about this — nothing easy about it. Through it all, though, the United States has worked relentlessly to support Israelis’ security, to get humanitarian supplies into Gaza, and to get a ceasefire and a hostage deal to bring this war to an end. Yesterday, with this new initiative, we’ve taken an important step in that direction. And I want to level with you today as to where we are and what might be possible. But I need your help. Everyone who wants peace now must raise their voices and let the leaders know they should take this deal; work to make it real, make it lasting; and forge a better future out of the tragic terror attack and war. It’s time to begin this new stage, for the hostages to come home, for Israel to be secure, for the suffering to stop. It’s time for this war to end and for the day after to begin. Thank you very much. 1:42 P.M.
Thank you, thank you, thank you. Now, I assume you’re standing in case you have to run when the rain starts. Please, have a seat. Rox, thank you very much for all you do to fight for American steelworkers. I mean that sincerely. I — and I want to recognize all the labor unions here today, including Steel Workers, Auto Workers, Sheet Metal Workers, AFL-CIO, IBEW, Communications Workers, Boilermakers, Machinists. I’m proud, as Rox said, to be labeled the most pro-union President in American history. You heard me say it before: Wall Street is important, lot of good folks there, but they didn’t build America. The middle class built America, and unions built the middle class. Folks, leaders from key American industries are here as well, including steel, aluminum, solar, semiconductors, automakers. And members of my Cabinet are here as well. Janet Yellen — the front row is Murderers’ Row here — — the Treasury Department; Julie Su, our Trade — our — of — of Labor; and Katherine Tai, our nation’s Trade Representative; and outstanding members of Congress as well. From Michigan, Debbie Stabenow is here. Debbie, welcome. And Hala- — and Haley Stevens is here. No, I guess she — there you are. Oh, you did make it. They told me you might not be able to make it. I’m sorry. All right. And Congresswoman Debbie Dingell. Again, you — smile, Debbie, it’s okay. Elissa Slotkin — Well, you should be. You — you’re — you’re responsible for a lot of this. Thank you for joining us as I announce a series of actions to make sure American workers and American business and corporations can compete and win in the industries of the future, because that’s what this is about. The fact is that American workers are — can outwork and outcompete anyone, as long as the competition is fair. But for too long, it hasn’t been fair. For years, the Chinese government has poured state money into Chinese companies across a whole range of industries: steel and aluminum, semiconductors, electric vehicles, solar panels — the industries of the future — and even critical health equipment, like gloves and masks. China heavily subsidized all these products, pushing Chinese companies to produce far more than the rest of the world can absorb. And then dumping the excess products onto the market at unfairly low prices, driving other manufacturers around the world out of business. You know, we — I won’t go into it, but we were talking about today about how many aluminum plants there used to be and how many there are now. The prices are unfairly low because Chinese companies don’t need to worry about a profit because the Chinese government subsidized them and subsidized them heavily. And the Chinese relies on other anticompetitive tactics as well, like forcing the American companies to transfer their technology in order to do business in China. I’ve spent a lot of time with Xi Jinping. Early on, I told him — he said, why am I being unfair with China? I said, “Look, we’ll play by the same rules if you want. If you want to do business in China, you got to have a 51 percent Chinese owner, you got to provide access to all your intellectual property, et cetera. You want to do that in America?” There was silence. Sometimes they just outright steal through cyber espionage and other means. And it’s been a well-documented inter- — and internationally recognized. When you make tactics like these, they are — they’re — you’re not competing. It’s not competition. It’s cheating. And we’ve seen the damage here in America. To name one example, back in 2000, when cheap steel from China began to flood the market, U.S. steel towns across Pennsylvania and Ohio were hit hard. And any of you from those areas know well. More than 1,800 ironworkers and steelworkers in Pennsylvania and Ohio lost their jobs. I’m not going to let that happen again. That’s why today I’m announcing new tariffs in key sectors of the economy that are going to ensure that our workers are not held back by unfair trade practices. They include a thing I’m announcing today: 25 percent tariff on Chinese steel and aluminum products. And we’ll counter China’s overcapacity in these industries. And we’re making major investments in clean American steel and aluminum — clean American steel and aluminum. It’s a big deal. Clean because of the way we manufacture it here — it emits half as much carbon as steel made in China. Last month, my administration announced the largest investment in clean manufacturing in all of history, up to $1.5 billion in six clean steel projects across America, creating and supporting thousands — thousands of union jobs. Next, a 100 percent tariff on electric vehicles made in China. And people say, “Wow.” Because we’re not going to let China flood our market, making it impossible for American automakers — automobile — auto manufacturers to compete fairly. We’re also implementing a 25 percent tariff on electric vehicle batteries from China and a 25 percent tariff on the critical minerals that make those batteries. Folks, look, I’m determined that the future of the electric vehicles will be made in America by union workers. Period. And we’ll do it by following international trade laws to do it. American companies are investing tens of billions of dollars in electric vehicles and their batteries. And thanks to my Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, we’re building a network of 500,000 charging stations all across America, creating thousands — thousands of IBEW jobs across America. Electric charging stations — — and the reason to do this is simple: Electric charging stations have to be as easy to find as a gas station, and that’s what this will be. You’re not going to have to worry about — you’re taking off and you’re going to be able to make it all across the country in one — without having to figure something else out. Our partners around the world are making similar investments. They also want a supply chain for electric vehicles that isn’t dominated by unfair trade practices from China. America can continue to buy — Americans — I want to make this clear, notwithstanding what the other guy is saying — can buy any kind of car they want — whether it’s gas, electric, or hybrid — but we’re never going to allow China to fa- — unfairly control the market for these cars. Period. Next — — we’re going to raise tariffs on Chinese solar panels from 25 to 50 percent. Here, again, because the Chinese government is subsidizing excess capacity, they’re flooding the market. They’re driving manufacturing companies out of business in Europe. But we won’t let that happen here in America. We’re putting a 50 percent tariff on semiconductors made in China. These are those tiny computer — all of you know this, but for the public — those little, tiny computer chips, smaller than a fingertip, that power everyday lives — everything from smartphones to automobiles to dishwashers, satellites. Look, America invented these cheeps . But over time, we stopped making them. We invested other — overseas. Now, thanks to my CHIPS and Science Act, one of the most significant investments ever in science and technology, we’re bringing this vital industry back home where it started, in the United States of America. And finally, we’re putting tariffs on health equipment, like masks and gloves that nurses and doctors wear every single day. If the pandemic caught us any- — tau- — taught us anything, we need a secure ply- — supply of essential supplies here at home. Folks, these key sectors, my administration is combining investments in America with tariffs that are strategic and targeted. It’s a smart approach. Compare that to the pri- — what the prior administration did. The — my predecessor promised to increase American exports and boost manufacturing. But he didn’t either. He failed. He signed a trade deal with China. They were supposed to buy $200 billion more in American goods. Instead, China imports from America barely budged. And now, Trump and his MAGA Republicans want across-the-board tariffs on all imports from all countries, if reelected. Well, that would drive up costs for families on an average of $1,500 per year each year. He simply doesn’t get it. For years, I’ve heard many Republicans and even Democratic friends say, “China is not on the rise” — excuse me, “China is on the rise; America is falling behind.” I’ve always believed they got it wrong. America is rising. We have the best economy in the world. And since I’ve come into office, the GDP is up, our trade deficit with China is down to the lowest level in over a decade, and we’re standing up against Chinese government unfair economic practices now. At the same time — — we’re standing up for peace and stability across the Taiwan Straits. I’ve revitalized our partnerships with the Pacific allies in India, Australia, Japan, South Korea, the Philippines — Pacific Island nations. I’ve made sure the most advanced American technologies we develop or invent can be used by the Chi- — can’t be used by the Chinese government to undermine our national security. Frankly, before it rains — frankly, for all this tough talk on China, it never occurred to my predecessor to do any of that. Bottom line: I want fair competition with China, not conflict. And we’re in a stronger position to win that economic competition of the 21st century against China than anyone else because we’re investing in America again. Let me close — let me close with this. I come from Scranton, a town like a lot of working-class, middle-class neighborhoods all across America — like Racine, Wisconsin, which I visited last week. Once a manufacturing boomtown until trickle-down economics came along, and the middle class in Racine got hollowed out. Six years ago, my predecessor showed up carrying a golden shovel, promising, thanks to his new $10 billion, manufacturing complex would be built in Racine. He said it would be the eighth wonder of the world — big promises that never came true. He used that golden shovel to dig a hole, and then he fell into it. Well, that’s not on my — that’s not part of my — well, I’m delivering for Racine — delivering. Thanks to the investment of my administration, Microsoft is investing billions to build a new data center in Racine, creating thousands of good-paying jobs. Because the view from Scranton and towns like it are a lot different than from Mar-a-Lago. It’s the view where — that money doesn’t determine your worth, everyone is entitled to being treated with dignity and respect, and everyone deserves a fair shot. We leave nobody behind. That’s the America we’re building together. That’s why I’ve never been more optimistic about our future. And I’m really going fast because of the rain. We have — — that’s why we have to remember who we are. We’re the United States of America. And there is nothing — there is nothing beyond our capacity when we do it together. God bless you all. And better get out of the rain. Thank you very, very much. Thank you. Oh, we got to sign this.
Good morning. It’s a good day for America, it’s a good day for Europe, and it’s a good day for world peace, for real. This is consequential. I just signed into law the national security package that was passed by the House of Representatives this weekend and by the Senate yesterday. It’s going to make America safer. It’s going to make the world safer. And it continues America’s leadership in the world, and everyone knows it. It gives vital support to America’s partners and they — so they can defend themselves against threats to their sovereignty and to the lives and freedom of their citizens. And it’s an investment in our own security, because when our allies are stronger — and I want to make this point again and again — when our allies are stronger, we are stronger. I’m grateful for all — grateful to all those in Congress — Democrats, Republicans, independents — who voted for this bill. It’s a path — to my desk, it was a difficult path. It should have been easier, and it should have gotten there sooner. But in the end, we did what America always does: We rose to the moment, we came together, and we got it done. Now we need to move fast, and we are. Over two years, Russia has been responsible for a brutal campaign against Ukraine. They’ve killed tens of thousands of Ukrainians, bombed hospitals — deliberately picked them out — bombed hospitals, kindergartens, grain silos; tried to plunge Ukraine into a cold and dark winter by striking their power grid. Ukrainians have fought — the Ukrainians have fought back, defending their country and their families with extraordinary courage. Many of you have been there with me many times. It’s amazing what they do. I mean, it’s amazing. Against such a larger military, Ukraine has regained over half the territory that Russia took from them in this invasion. And they won important victories against Russia’s navy. But make no mistake about: They’re a fighting force with the will and the skill to win — the will and the skill to win. For months, while MAGA Republicans were blocking aid, Ukraine has been running out of artillery shells and ammunition. Meanwhile, Putin’s friends keep giving him — are keeping him well supplied. Iran sent him drones. North Korea has sent him ballistic missiles and artillery shells. China is providing components and know-how to boost Russia’s defense production. With all this support, Russia has ramped up its airstrikes against Ukrainian cities and critical infrastructure, rained down munitions on U- — brave Ukrainians defending their homeland. And now Americans are going to send Ukraine the supplies they need to keep them in the fight. This weekend, there are reports — and this is — I find this amazing. There are reports of cheers breaking out of the trenches in eastern Ukraine — probably came from one of your folks — a reporter or someone. I’m not sure where it came from. But that they’re cheering as they watch the House vote in support for Ukraine. It’s not like they don’t understand what we’ve done. Not like they don’t understand how critical this is for them. I’m making sure the shipments start right away. In the next few hours — literally, the few hours — we’re going to begin sending in equipment to Ukraine for air defense; munitions for artillery, for rocket systems; and armored vehicles. You know, this package is literally an investment, not only in Ur- — Ukraine’s security but in Europe’s security, in our own security. We’re sending Ukraine equipment from our own stockpiles, and then we’ll replenish those stockpiles with new products made by American companies here in America: Patriot missiles made in Arizona, Javelins made in Alabama, artillery shells made in Ohio, Pennsylvania, and Texas. In other words, we’re helping Ukraine while at the same time investing in our own industrial base, strengthening our own national security, and supporting jobs in nearly 40 states all across America. You know, the United States is not acting alone, to state the obvious. Our allies in Europe and around the world, who for — constantly been asking me, “Are we going to step up? We’re not going to walk away, are we? How many” — and some of you have been in these international meetings with me. They’re very concerned. Had we failed to step up, Lord only knows what would happen to the cohesion of NATO. We’re also sendi- — they’re also sending significant help to Ukraine. We’re all standing together against this brutal dictator. As I’ve argued for months, this is directly — directly in the United States’ national security interest. If Putin trium- — triumphs in Ukraine, the next move of Russian forces could very well be a direct attack on a NATO Ally. And you all know full well that invoking Article Five of the North Atlantic Treaty would be the first thing that comes to mind, which declares an attack on one is an attack on all. If Putin attacks a NATO Ally, like he’s attacking Ukraine today, we’d have no choice but to come to their aid, just like our NATO Allies came to our la- — our aid after the September 11th attacks here. That’s why we’re supporting and surging support now to Ukraine: to stop Putin from drawing the United States into a war in Europe and in the future. You know, it seems to me we should take a little bit of a step back and realize what a critical moment this was for the United States and for NATO. This is a historical moment. In the last two years, we’ve helped unify, strengthen, and expand NATO. Imagine if instead we had failed — we had failed to step up now and support Ukraine. All those gains would have begun to unravel, the cohesion of NATO would have been weakened, and our national security would have been undermined, without any question. You know, Putin started this war believing he could easily break the will of the people of Ukraine. When that failed, he changed his strategy a little bit, thinking he could break the — break the will of NATO, break the will of the United States, break our will. Well, he’s failed again. America stands with our friends. We stand up against dictators. We bow to no one — to no one, certainly not Vladimir Putin. Look, this bill also includes vital support for Israel. Just 10 days ago, we saw Iran launch over 100 missiles and drones at Israel. And because of them and other allies across the countr- — world, including from the region, none — no serious damage occurred. An unprecedented attack that followed years of Iran supporting Hezbollah, Hamas, and proxies of their own — their own attack on Israel. They — they fund these guys. My commitment to Israel, I want to make clear again, is ironclad. The security of Israel is critical. I will always make sure that Israel has what it needs to defend itself against Iran and terrorists it supports. And with this aid, the United States can help replenish Israel’s air defense and provide other critical defense so Iran can never carry out the destruction it intended with its attack 10 days ago. But at the same time, this bill significantly — significantly increases humanitarian assistance we’re sending to the innocent people of Gaza, who are suffering badly. They’re suffering the consequences of this war that Hamas started. And we’ve been working intently for months to get as much aid to Gaza as possible. This bill includes $1 billion for additional humanitarian aid in Gaza. We’re going to immediately secure that aid and surge it — surge it, including food, medical supplies, clean water. And Israel must make sure all this aid reaches the Palestinians in Gaza without delay. And everything we do is guided by the ultimate goal of bringing these hostages home, securing a ceasefire, and setting the conditions for an enduring peace. You know, there’s more that this bill does, in- — as you all know, the press here, including providing for support to strengthen even further our allies and partners in the Indo-Pacific region, as well as humanitarian aid to places including Haiti, Sudan, and Somalia. But there’s one thing this bill does not do: border security. You know, just this year, I proposed and negotiated and agreed to the strongest border security bill this country has ever, ever, ever seen. It was bipartisan. It should have been included in this bill, and I’m determined to get it done for the American people. But I’ll come back to that in another mom- — another time. This is a reminder of what America can do when we s- — when we come together, despite our differences. I want to thank everyone in Congress who made it possible, especially the bipartisan leadership: Speaker of the House, Mike Johnson; Leader Jeffries; Leaders Schumer and McConnell. They don’t always agree, but when it matters most, they stepped up and did the right thing. And I mean this sincerely, history will remember this time. History will remember this moment. For all the talk about how dysfunctional things are in Washington, when you look over the past three years, we see that time and again on the critical issues we’ve actually come together. It hadn’t always been easy, but when it’s come time to decide to rebuild America, we did it with the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, which is just underway. When it came time to invest in our semiconductor industry and technica- — technologic- — technologies of the future, we did it with the CHIPS and Science Act. And when it came time to stand with Ukraine and Israel and help the people of Gaza, we did that as well. At the end of the day, most of us — whether we’re Democrats, Republicans, or independents — believe that America must stand up for what is right. We don’t walk away from our allies; we stand with them. We don’t let tyrants win; we oppose them. We don’t merely watch global events unfold; we shape them. That’s what it means to be the ins- — the indispensable nation. That’s what it means to be the world’s superpower and the world’s leading democracy. Some of our MAGA Republican friends reject that vision, but this vote makes it clear: There is a bipartisan consensus for that kind of American leadership. That’s exactly what we’ll continue to deliver. I thank you all very much. And now I’m going off to make a speech at a hotel that I am late for. And I’ll have plenty of time to answer questions on this and other matters. Thank you. 11:08 A.M. EDT
Hello, Pittsburgh. Please have a seat. Robert, thank you for that introduction and for sharing your story about being a third-generation steelworker and a Marine Corps veteran. Where are you? Are you over on this side? There you are. Well, I want to thank you for the — your new president, by the way. Dave McCall has been a friend of mine and a friend of a former president. We — we miss him, but it’s great to have you, Dave. You’ve been a good friend. And we’re both longtime friends — — we’re both longtime friend of Tom’s as well. We miss him dearly. Dave, you’re doing a great job in his footsteps and — and it’s just going to get better, in my view. There’s an expression that comes to mind: “You go home with them that brung you to the dance.” And you brought me to the dance. No joke. The Mayor and I are buddies. I told the Mayor — and I mean it sincerely — the first outfit ever to endorse me as a 29-year-old kid running in a tough year for United States Senate, making me the second youngest man ever elected to the Senate, was a guy named Hughie Carcella. And back in those days, the s- — we had a big steelworkers — we had a lot of steelworkers in Claymont, Delaware, where I was from, because they worked in Worth Steel Company. And — and I’ll never forget coming to me and saying, “We’re going to get you help.” And I came out to Pittsburgh and you — and the steelworkers endorsed me. It changed everything. Nixon won my state — Nixon won my state of Delaware with 60 percent of the vote, and I won with an astounding 3,100 majority — — 3,100 majority. And it’s thanks to you. I really mean it. I’m Pittsburgh and — because of — and I really mean it: My love for Pittsburgh goes back to my Scranton days. My Grandfather Finnegan always talked about Pittsburgh. Any rate, to make a long story short, the bottom line, for all kidding aside, is I’m president because of you guys. I really am. And I’m proud, as was mentioned earlier — I’m proud to be the most pro-union president in American history, for real. Where I was raised, it ain’t labor; it’s unions — unions. I had an uncle. He’d say, “Joey, you are union from belt buckle to shoe sole.” Well, I want to thank some folks who had my back and — and had to stay back in Washington and couldn’t be here today. Representatives Summer Lee and — you know, I — she — by the way, there are votes going on — and Chris DeLuzio. And Senator Bobby Casey is one of my closest friends, as his dad was. And John Fetterman, who I want to stay on his side no matter what. And thank you to all the state and local leaders here, including the Mayor of Pittsburgh, Ed Gainey. Ed, you’re the best buddy. You’ve — you’ve really stepped up. And a great leader, JoJo Burgess, an Army veteran from a steelworking family. He was my guest at the State of the Union just a couple of years ago. He came back home to Washington, Pennsylvania, and decided to run for mayor, and he won. And he’s still working as a steelworker. But that’s America. Look, folks, it was — I was — almost exactly five years ago that I began my campaign for president right here in Pittsburgh, where I announced. I said one of the reasons I was running was to rebuild the backbone of America, the middle class. And it was already mentioned — it’s been mentioned a thousand times, thankfully, since then — that the backbone of America has a steel spine. It really does have a steel spine. You heard me say it before: Wall Street didn’t build America; the middle class didn’t build — built America, and you guys built the middle class. Unions built it. And that’s why I’m here today to announce a series of actions that I stand by you, the American steelworker. Look, first, U.S. Steel has been an iconic American company for more than a century. And it should remain a totally American company — — American owned, American operated, by American union steelworkers — the best in the world. And it’s — that’s going to happen. I promise you. Second, American steelworkers can outwork, outcompete as long as they have fair competition. But for too long, the Chinese government has poured state money into Chinese steel companies, pushing them to make so much steel — as much as possible — subsidized by the Chinese government. Because Chinese steel companies produce a lot more steel than China needs, it ends up dumping the extra steel into the global markets at unfairly low prices. And the prices are unfairly low because Chinese steel companies don’t need to worry about making a profit, because the Chinese government is subsidizing them so heavily. They’re not competing. They’re cheating. They’re cheating. And we’ve seen the damage here in America. You know, back in the early 2000s, the Chinese steel began floating the mar- — flooding the market wi- — in steel towns all across Pennsylvania and Ohio, who were hit very hard. Between those years, 2000 and 2010, more than 14,000 steelworkers in Pennsylvania and Ohio lost their jobs — 14,000. Let me ask you: Are we going to let that happen again? I promise you that I’m not going to let that happen again. Look, right now, my U.S. Trade Representative is investigating trade practices by the Chinese government regarding steel and aluminum. If that investigation confirms these anti-competitive trade practices, then I’m calling on her to consider tripling the tariff rates for both steel imports and aluminum imports from China. And we know that Chinese steel and aluminum are being imported into America through Mexico that avoids the tariff. And just yesterday, I had a delegation down in Mexico meeting with AMLO, the Mexican president, to address this issue. Mexico and the United States are going to work together to solve it, I promise you. I promise you. My administration is also taking a real hard look at the Chinese government’s industrial practices when it comes to global shipbuilding, which is critical to our economy. We depend on a fleet of commercial shipping vessels that carry American products around the world. Shipbuilding is critical to our national security, including the strength of the United States Navy. That’s why my administration takes it very seriously that U.S. Steelworkers, along with four other unions, have asked us to investigate whether the Chinese government is using anticompetitive practices to artificially lower prices in the shipbuilding industry. We’ve heard you. And if the Chinese government is doing that and the unfair tactics to undermine free and fair trade competition in the shipping industry, I will take action. That investigation is going on. Taken together, these are strategic and targeted actions that are going to protect American workers and ensure fair competition. Meanwhile, my predecessor and the MAGA Republicans want across-the-board tariffs on all imports from all countries. That could badly hurt American consumers. It’s estimated it would cost the average American family an average of $1,500 a year if they succeeded in doing that. Trump simply doesn’t get it. For years, I’ve heard my — many of my Republican and even Democratic friends say that China is on the rise and America has been falling behind. You may have noticed, the last two years, I’ve been the only one disagreeing with that. I’ve always believed we’ve got it all wrong. America is rising. And we have the best economy in the world, which we do. And since I’ve come to office, our GDP is up, our trade deficit with China is down to the lowest level in over a decade, and we’re standing up against the Chinese government unfair economic practice and industrial over-capacity. And we are the strongest economic — economy in the world. In addition — and, by the way, China has got more — I always say to my colleagues — when I meet other world leaders, I say, “Would you trade places with China? Would you trade places with their problems?” They’ve got a population that is more people in retirement than working. They’re not in- — they’re not importing any — they’re not bringing — they’re xenophobic — no — nobody coming — else coming in. They’ve got real problems. I’m not looking for a fight with China. I’m looking for competition, but fair competition. In addition, we’re standing up for peace and stability across the Taiwan Straits. I’ve revitalized our partnerships in — and our alliances in the Pacific with India, Australia, South Korea, the Philippines, and other Pacific Island nations. I’ve made sure that we have the most advanced technologies that we’ve developed and invented, and they can’t be sent to China or undermine our — because it’ll undermine our national security. When I spoke with Xi Jinping, he said, “Why?” I said, “Because you use it for all the wrong reasons, so you’re not going to get those advanced computer chips.” Finally, for all this tough talk on China, it never occurred to my predecessor to do any of that. The bottom line is that I want fair competition with China, not conflict, and we’re in a stronger position to win the economic competition of the 21st century against China or anyone else because we’re investing in America and American workers again, finally. You know, there’s a law, back in the ‘30s, that passed when we — about whether unions could exist. There’s a provision that no — very few people — very few presidents ever paid attention to. If a president is sent money from the Congress to do something for the public, he must use American products and must use American workers, unless you couldn’t find them. Well, guess what? A lot of them didn’t find them, except me. No, I mean it. Not a joke. Everything we build, we build with American product and with American workers, period. And it doesn’t violate any trade agreement. Thanks to my Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, we announced over 51,000 new infrastructure projects all across America — — so far — we’re just getting started — including roads, bridges, ports, airports, clean water systems, high-speed affordable Internet, all across America. You may remember, my predecessor promised “Infrastructure Week” after week after week — — for four years and never built a damn thing. Nothing. No, I’m serious: Nothing. And, by the way, these projects are going to be using — using American-made materials, like American steel and American concrete, creating good-paying American jobs — union jobs. Why? As I said — I’ve already said it, but since the ‘30s, the law has said we could do that. And that’s exactly what I’m doing. And we’re buying American. We are selling American. It’s all about America. We buy America. And past administrations, including my predecessor, failed to uphold that “Buy American” provision. Not anymore. That’s — that’s over. We — American products and American workers. Look, folks, you know, I signed the Inflation Reduction Act, the most significant law taking on climate change ever anywhere in the world — anywhere in the world. We didn’t get anybody to vote for it, other than my Democratic friends. Okay? Well, guess what? That includes billions of dollars in investments in industries of the future, including clean American steel. It’s clean because the way we produce it here emits much less carbon than the steel made in China. Last month, my administration announced the largest investment ever in clean manufacturing in American history — in all of American history. It included up to $1.5 billion in six clean steel projects across America — $1.5 billion. It’s going to create and support thousands of union jobs, including at — at Butler Works in — in Lyndora, Pe- — over in Lyndora, Pennsylvania. My predecessor and his Republican friends in Congress want to repeal that law that would cut those jobs. And it would cut the jobs if you repeal the law. I’m serious. The — I know when I say these things, you wonder can that — could they be — possibly be that stupid? I — I shouldn’t say it that way. But I’m serious. Think about it. Just check it out. That’s what they want to do. But that’s not all. My predecessor rolled back protections for American workers. He opposed the increase overall for federal minimum wage. He put union busters on the National Labor Relations Board. For real. Well, you know he did. Think — think of what the board looked like before I became president. Not a joke. Not a joke. Meanwhile, since I was sworn in as president, because of you, look at what we’ve achieved together. Through my American Rescue Plan, I enacted the Butch Lewis Act, the most significant law — — the most significant law for union workers and retirees in 50 years. Think of what would happen if we didn’t get that passed. And none of them wanted to help me. But we got it done. It protected the hard-earned pensions of more than 120,000 steelworkers. Folks, you’ve had my back, and I promise I have your back. We made that happen while my predecessor never lifted a finger to help. I also increased the federal minimum wage for federal contracts. The people I’ve appointed to the National Labor Relations Board actually care about American workers. So far, we’ve created 15 million — as mentioned earlier — new jobs — a record in a — in a term of a president — — 492,000 new jobs so far in Pennsylvania alone. Under my predecessor, who is busy right now — — Pennsylvania lost 275,000 jobs. I mean, let’s — let’s look at the facts. On my watch, unemployment hasn’t been this low for this long in 50 years. That’s 50 years. Wages are rising. American manufacturing is booming. We’ve created up close to 800,000 new manufacturing jobs since I became president, including 28,000 manufacturing jobs right here in Pennsylvania. We’ve attracted $680 billion — let me say it again — $680 billion in private-sector investment in advanced manufacturing and clean energy here in America, including $4 billion just here in the state of Pennsylvania so far. Folks, instead of importing foreign products and exporting American jobs, we’re exporting American products and creating American jobs. Think about — think of all the time — think — think of the last years where they’d go — American — corporate America wanted to go find the cheapest labor in the world, send the jobs overseas, and then import the product home. Not anymore. Together, we’re doing what’s always worked best for this country. We’re investing in all of America, in all Americans. And we’re building an economy from the middle out — not — and the bottom up, not the top down. Because when we do that, the poor have a ladder up and the middle class do well and the wealthy still do very well. We all do well. No, for real. Look, let me close with this. I just came from my hometown, Scranton, Pennsylvania, a place like Pittsburgh that sort of climbs into your heart and never leaves you. And it really doesn’t. My mom didn’t live in — in Scranton since she was — 1954, but when you’d ask Mom where is she from, she’d say, “Scranton.” “Scranton.” Well, where you learn basic — a basic value set, like you do here. Money doesn’t determine your worth, I would always be told. Everyone is entitled to be treated with dignity and respect. My dad used to say, “A job is about a lot more than a paycheck — worth a lot more than a paycheck, pal. It’s about your dignity. It’s about respect. It’s about being treated with respect.” And he’d say — he’d always — and I give you my word. These are phrases he’d always use. He’d say, “You know, not only being able to give — have respect, but being able to look your kid in the eye and say, ‘Honey, it’s going to be okay,’ and mean it — mean it.” Look, everyone — everyone deserves a fair shot — just a fair shot. And we’re going to leave no one behind. Folks, that’s my view of the economy — from Scranton, from Pittsburgh, from the thousands of working- and middle-class neighborhoods all across America. It’s a future we are building together. As I said, I always think of my dad. I really mean it. My Dad, during the war, he didn’t get to go to college. He got a — he was from Bal- — as they say in Baltimore, Baltimore — — — he was from — he was from Baltimore, and then his father, then, worked for American Oil Company and moved to Wilmington and then to Scranton to open up business — to open up stations. And — but he always would come home and — and he’d go back and close the business. He didn’t own it; he was a — managed a dealership. And he’d say, “A job is a lot more than a paycheck.” And it really is. It’s about treating people with dignity. It’s about treating them with respect. And, look, it’s going to be okay. It’s going to be okay. Folks, because of you, the American worker, I’ve never been more optimistic about America’s future. And I mean it. I really, truly am. When my son died, I decided I wa- — he had spent a year in Iraq, and he — unfortunately, his hooch was next to a burn pit. And he went one of the most fit guys in his — in his regiment, and he came home with stage four glioblastoma. They’re more brain injuries for — for folks fighting in Iraq than any other place in the world. Remember what happened to all those firemen in 9/11? Same thing happened because these burn pits are just awful. They put everything from human waste to — anyway — And — and I — and so, I wasn’t going to run. But what happened was, when he passed, you remember that — right after that — well, you don’t remember him passing in 2015. And I w- — I wasn’t going to run. I was going to write a book about inflection points in American history, where the actions we take in a short period of time determine what happens in the next five or six decades. Well, that’s one of the places we’re at right now. And when those folks came walking out of those fields — down in Charlottesville, Virginia — carrying Nazi banners, singing the same garbage that they sang in Hitler’s streets in Germany in the ‘30s, carrying torches, accompanied by the Ku Klux Klan, and a young woman was killed, I decided that I had to run. I had to run. Our democracy is at stake, and it really is. But you know what changes it? When you make the economy grow. When you stand up and ordinary people have an even shot and they’re not at all susceptible to the garbage that’s fed from these guys. It’s pure garbage. I’m supposed to stop. I — I shouldn’t keep going. Well, folks, look — look, we’ve got to just remember who we are. And I can’t — well, when I left Scranton today, I wanted to go to the war memorial that has the names of all the Scrantonians who died in World War Two etched into a granite wall, because I wanted to see where my uncle — “Uncle Bosie,” Ambrose J. Finnegan — where his name was etched. Back a- — when D-Day occurred and — on Sunday, the next day, my mother’s four brothers all went down to the recruiting station and joined the military. Every one of them volunteered. And my uncle — they called him Un- — Ambrose — instead of “Brosie,” they called him “Bosie.” My Uncle Bosie was a hell of an athlete, they tell me, when he was a kid. And he became an Army Air Corps, before the Air Force came along. He flew those single-engine planes as reconnaissance over war zones. And he got shot down in New Guinea, and they never found the body because there used to be — there were a lot of cannibals, for real, in that part of New Guinea. And — and then my son volunteered to go to Iraq for a year. And he came back with stage four glioblastoma. And they — and they gave — like many of you, risked your lives and you know people who gave their lives for the country. They’re heroes. But one of the things that I — as I was doing that today, I was reminded of what my opponent said in Paris not too long ago. They asked him if he would go visit American gravesites. He said, “No,” he wouldn’t do it, because they were all “suckers” and “losers.” I’m not making that up. His staff who was with him acknowledge it today. “Suckers” and “losers.” That man doesn’t deserve to have been the Commander-in-Chief for my son, my uncle. So, folks, we got a lot of work to do, but I’m confident we can do it. And I mean it. I’ve never been more optimistic about our possibilities as a nation. So, let’s go out and get . We’re the United States of America. There’s nothing beyond our capacity — nothing. Thank you, thank you, thank you. 2:50 P.M. EDT
Good afternoon. For much too long, as you all know, the immigration system has been broken. And it’s long past time to fix it. That’s why, months ago, I instructed my team to begin negotiations with a bipartisan group of senators to seriously and finally fix our immigration system. For months now, that’s what they’ve done, working around the clock, through the holidays, over the weekends. It’s been an extraordinary effort by Senators Lankford, Murphy, and Sinema. The result of all this hard work is a bipartisan agreement that represents the most fair, humane reforms in our immigration system in a long time and the toughest set of reforms to secure the border ever. Now, all indications are this bill won’t even move forward to the Senate floor. Why? A simple reason: Donald Trump. Because Donald Trump thinks it’s bad for him politically. Therefore, he doesn’t — even though it would help the — the country, he’s not for it. He’d rather weaponize this issue than actually solve it. So, for the last 24 hours, he’s done nothing, I’m told, but reach out to Republicans in the House and the Senate and threaten them and try to intimidate them to vote against this proposal. And it looks like they’re caving. Frankly, they owe it to the American people to show some spine and do what they know to be right. So, I want to tell the American people what’s in this bill and why everyone from the Wall Street Journal to the Border Patrol to the Chamber of Commerce — United States Chamber of Commerce support this bill. Because it’s going to make the country safer, make the border more secure, treat people more humanely and freel- — and fairly, and make legal immigration more efficient and consistent with the values of our nation and our international treaty obligations. It would finally provide the funding that I have repeatedly — repeatedly requested, most recently in October, to actually secure the border. That includes an additional 1,500 border agents and officers to secure the border — to physically secure it. In addition, 100 cutting-edge machines to detect and stop fentanyl at the Southwest Border. We have that capacity. An additional — 100 additional immigration judges to help reduce the year-long asylum backlog. You show up for asylum and you get told a judge is supposed to talk to you. It takes a year to get that discussion going. This bill would also establish new, efficient, and fair process for the government to consider an asylum claim for those arriving at the border. Today, the process can take five to seven years, as you all know. They show up at the border, get a bracelet, told to be — come back when called, five to seven years from now, in the country. That’s too long, and it’s not rational. With the new policies in this bill and the additional 4,300 more asylum officers — who spend hours, I might add, with each immigrant to consider their claims — whether they — they qualify — we’ll be able to reduce that process to six months, not five to seven years. This bipartisan bill will also expedite work permits so those who are here and who qualify can begin work more quickly. That’s something that our governors, our mayors, and our business leaders have been asking me for and asking them for. All across the country, they’ve been asking for this. It’ll also create more opportunities for families to come together, for business to hire additional workers. And for the first time in 30 years — the first time in 30 years, this bipartisan legislation increases the number of immigrant visas for people legally — legally able to come to this country through ports of entry. And it ensures that — for the first time, that vulnerable, unaccompanied young children have legal representation at the border. This bill would also give me, as President, the emergency authority to temporarily shut down the border when it becomes overwhelmed — the numbers they’re talking — over 5,000 people trying get in in one day. The bill — if the bill were law today, it would qualify to be shut down right now while we repair it. The bottom line is: This bipartisan bill is a win for America because it makes important fixes to our broken immigration system, and it’s the toughest, fairest law that’s ever been proposed relative to the border. Now, it doesn’t address everything I’d like — that I wanted. For example, we still need a path for — of documentation for those who are already here. And we’re not walking away from true immigration reform, including permanent protections and a pathway to citizenship for young DREAMers who came here when they were children and who have been good citizens and contribute so much to our country. But the reforms in this bill are essential for making our border more orderly, more humane, and more secure. That’s why the Border Patrol Union — which, by the way, endorsed Donald Trump in the 2020 election — endorses this bill. These are the people whose job it is to secure the border every single solitary day. They don’t just show up for photo ops like some members of Congress. They’re there to do their job. This is the risk — the thing they — many of them risk their lives doing every single day. And they decided — they decided — the Border Patrol decided this gives them the tools they need to do the job: more personnel across the board. It’s also why the U.S. Chamber of Commerce endorsed this bill, because they know this bill is not just good for the border, it’s also good for American business and for the American economy. And it’s why the Wall Street Journal endorsed the bill with the headline this morning which reads, quote, “A Border Security Bill Worth Passing. The Senate Has Reforms Trump Never Came Close to Getting.” That’s the quote from the Journal. This bill would also address two other important priorities. First, it provides urgent funding for Ukraine. I’m wearing my Ukraine tie and my Ukraine pin, which I’ve been wearing because the — they’re — they’re in dire straits right now, defending themselves against the Russian onslaught and brutal conquest. The clock is ticking. Every week, every month that passes without new aid to Ukraine means fewer artillery shells, fewer defense ai- — air defense systems, fewer tools for Ukraine to defend itself against this Russian onslaught. Just what Putin wants. Ukrainians are fighting bravely. You know, you’ve — many of you — I look around the room here — have followed me in this for a long time. I pulled together a coalition of over 50 nations to support them. On the phone, talking to these leaders, I — we unified NATO. Remember when we first came into office, NATO was — well, they’re all together, and I actually increased the size of NATO. We can’t walk away now. That’s what Putin is betting on. Supporting this bill is standing up to Putin. Opposing this bill is playing into his hands. As I’ve said before, the stakes on this fight extend well beyond Ukraine. If we don’t stop Putin’s appetite for power and control in Ukraine, he won’t limit himself to just Ukraine. And the costs for America and our allies and partners will rise. For those Republicans in Congress who think they can oppose funding for Ukraine and not be held accountable, history is watching. History is watching. A failure to support Ukraine at this critical moment will never be forgotten. The position of the MAGA Republicans can be characterized by the New York Times headline: “First…” And this is the headline. It reads, “Trump First. Putin Second. America Third.” That cannot pertain. This bipartisan agreement also provides Israel with what it needs to protect its people and defend itself against Hamas terrorists. And it will provide the necessary lifesaving humanitarian assistance for the Palestinian people. By opposing this bill, they’re denying aid to the people who are really suffering and desperately need help. You know, there’s more work to get this done, over the finish line. And I want to be clear: Doing nothing is not an option. Republicans have to decide. For years, they said they want to secure the border. Now they have the strongest border bill this country has ever seen. We’re seeing statements about how many oppose the bill now. Look, I understand the former President is desperately trying to stop this bill because it’s not — he’s not interested in solving the border problem; he wants a political issue to run against me on. They’ve all but said that, across the board. No one really denies that, that I’m aware of. The American people want a solution that puts an end to the empty political rhetoric which has failed to do anything for so long. We have to get the resources to the border to get the job done. So, Republicans have to decide: Who do they serve — Donald Trump or the American people? Are they here to solve problems or just weaponize those problems for political purposes? I know my answer. I serve the American people. I’m here to solve problems. It was just months ago that Republicans were asking for this exact bill to deal with the border, to provide support for Ukraine and Israel. And now — and now it’s here, and they’re saying, “Never mind. Never mind.” Folks, we’ve got to move past this toxic politics. It’s time to stop playing games with the world waiting and watching. And, by the way, the world is waiting. The world is watching. They are waiting and watching what we’re going to do. We can’t let — we can’t continue to let petty partisan politics get in the way of our responsibility. We’re a great nation that’s not acting like a great nation. So, I’m calling on Congress to pass this bill and get it to my desk immediately. But if the bill fails, I want to be absolutely clear about something: The American people are going to know why it failed. I’ll be taking this issue to the country, and the voters are going to know that it’s not just a moment — just at the moment we were going to secure the border and fund these other programs, Trump and the MAGA Republicans said no because they’re afraid of Donald Trump — afraid of Donald Trump. Every day between now and November, the American people are going to know that the only reason the border is not secure is Donald Trump and his MAGA Republican friends. It’s time for Republicans in the Congress to show a little courage, to show a little spine to make it clear to the American people that you work for them and not for anyone else. I know who I work for. I work for the American people. In moments like this, we have to remember who in God’s name we are. We’re the United States of America. You’ve heard me say it many times: There is nothing beyond our capacity if we do it together. We’re right on the verge of doing it together. I hope — I hope and pray they find reason to reconsider blowing this up. May God bless you all. And may God protect our troops.
Good afternoon, everyone. I’d like to speak to you today about an urgent responsibility that Congress has to uphold the national security needs of the United States and, quite frankly, of our partners as well. This cannot wait. Congress needs to pass supplemental funding for Ukraine before they break for the holiday recess. It’s as simple as that. Frankly, I think it’s stunning that we’ve gotten to this point in the first place. While Congress — the Republicans in Congress is — are willing to give Putin the greatest gift he could hope for and abandon our global leadership not just to Ukraine, but beyond that. We’ve all seen the brutality that Putin has inflicted on Ukraine: invading another country; trying to subjugate his neighbors to his iron rule; committing atrocities — atrocities against Ukrainian civilians; trying to plunge them into the cold and darkness of winter by bombing their electrical grid so they don’t have any heat during the winter, ki- — or electricity, for that matter; kidnapping thousands of Ukrain- — thousands of Ukrainian children from their parents and families and keeping them in Russia. Russian forces are committing war crimes. It’s as simple as that. It’s stunning. Who is prepared to walk away from holding Putin accountable for this behavior? Who among us is really prepared to do that? You know, for the better part of two years, the brave people of Ukraine have denied Russia a victory on the battlefield. They’ve defeated Vladimir Putin’s ambition to dominate Ukraine. And the people of the United States can and should take pride — they should take pride that we’ve enabled Ukraine’s success thanks to the steady supply of weapons and ammunition we’ve provided them together with our partners and our allies. I just did a meeting with the G7, which was one of the issues we discussed — all of the European leaders. We are prepared to stay with us — stay with Ukraine, and our European friends are as well. Who in the United States are prepared to walk away from that? I tell you, I’m not prepared to walk away, and I don’t think the American people are either. If Putin takes Ukraine, he won’t stop there. It’s important to see the long run here. He’s going to keep going. He’s made that pretty clear. If Putin attacks a NATO Ally — if he keeps going and then he attacks a NATO Ally — well, we’ve committed as a NATO member that we’d defend every inch of NATO territory. Then we’ll have something that we don’t seek and that we don’t have today: American troops fighting Russian troops — American troops fighting Russian troops if he moves into other parts of NATO. Make no mistake: Today’s vote is going to be long remembered. And history is going to judge harshly those who turn their back on freedom’s cause. We can’t let Putin win. I’ll say it again: We can’t let Putin win. It’s in our overwhelming national interest and international interest of all our friends. Any disruption in our ability to supply Ukraine clearly strengthens Putin’s position. We’ve run out of money to be able to do that, in terms of authorization. Extreme Republicans are playing chicken with our national security, holding Ukraine’s funding hostage to their extreme partisan border policies. Let me be clear: We need real solutions. I support real solutions at the border. I put forward a comprehensive plan the first day I came into office. I’ve made it clear that we need Congress to make changes to fix what is a broken immigration system, because we know — we all know it’s broken. And I’m willing to do significantly more. But in terms of changes to policy and to provide resources that we need at the border, I’m willing to d- — change policy as well. I’ve asked for billions of dollars for more border agents, more immigration judges, more asylum officers. Republicans have to decide if they want a political issue or if they want a solution at the border. Do they really want a solution? It cannot be sustained as it is now. We need a real solution. And my team has been engaged in negotiations with Semate — with Senate Democrats and Republicans on border security. Democrats — Democrats have put forward a bipartisan compromise on the table. Leader Schumer and Senate Democrats also have offered to let Republicans propose amendments to that border proposal, but Republicans rejected it. They said, “No, we — we don’t want you even to introduce your proposal, because then we’re not going to…” — and even though the Democrats say, “You can amend it any way you want,” “No, no. We don’t want to do that.” This has to be a negotiation. Republicans think they can get everything they want without any bipartisan compromise. That’s not the answer. That’s not the answer. And now they’re willing to literally kneecap Ukraine on the battlefield and damage our national security in the process. Look, I know we have our divisions at home. Let’s get past them. This is critical. Petty, partisan, angry politics can’t get in the way of our responsibilities as a leading nation in the world. And, literally, the entire world is watching. The entire world is watching: What will the United States do? And think, if we don’t support Ukraine, what’s the rest of the world going to do? What’s Japan going to do, which is supporting Ukraine now? What’s going to happen in terms of the G7? What’s going to happen in terms of our NATO Allies? What are they going to do? If we walk away now, it’ll only embolden other would-be aggressors, so, I’m calling on Congress to do something and do the right thing: to stand with the people of Ukraine, stand against the tyranny of Putin, stand for freedom — literally, stand for freedom. Let’s get this done. We’re the reason Putin has not totally overrun Ukraine and moved beyond that. And you all have heard me talk about it before. If, in fact, we walk away, how many of our European friends are going to continue to fund? And at what rates are they going continue to fund it? This is too serious. And like I said, I am willing to make significant compromises on the border. We need to fix the broken border system. It is broken. And thus far, I’ve gotten no response. So, I just — there’s going to be a vote a little bit later today. We’ll know where we go from there. But I wanted to make this comment before the vote. And I’m sure I’ll be talking with you after the vote. Thank you very much for listening. Appreciate it. 
Hey, folks. We all set? All right. Yesterday, families all across America gathered together with their loved ones and to — to give thanks. We have much to be thankful for in America: the food on our tables, the family and loved ones in our homes, and the many blessings that come from living in the greatest nation on Earth. And today, we can also be thankful of families being recruited and reunited with loved ones who have been held hostage for nearly 50 days. Beginning this morning, under a deal reached by extensive U.S. diplomacy, including numerous calls I’ve made from the Oval Office to leaders across the region, fighting in Gaza will halt for four days. This deal also is structured to allow a pause to continue for more than 50 hostages to be released. That’s our goal. This morning, I’ve been engaged with my team as we began the first difficult days of implementing this deal. It is only a start, but, so far, it’s gone well. Earlier this morning, 13 Israeli hostages were released, including an elderly woman — a grandmother — and mothers with their young children, some under the age of six years old. Separately, several Thai nationals and Filipino nationals who were also kidnapped by Hamas on the 7th, they were released as well. All of these hostages have been through a terrible ordeal, and this is the beginning of a long journey of healing for them. The teddy bears waiting to greet those children at the hospital are a stark reminder of the trauma these children have been through and at such a very young age. Jill and I — and Jill is with me here — are keeping them all in our prayers today. Today — today has been the product of a lot of hard work and weeks of personal engagement. From the moment Hamas kidnapped these people, I, along with my team, have worked around the clock to secure their release. We saw the first results of this effort with the release of two American hostages in late October followed by the release of two Israeli hostages. I have consistently pressed for a pause in the fighting for two reasons: to accelerate and expand the humanitarian assistance going into Gaza and, two, to facilitate the release of hostages. And over the past several weeks, I’ve spoken repeatedly with the Emir of Qatar, the President Sisi of Egypt, and Prime Minister Netanya- — Netanyahu of Israel to help secure this deal — to nail it down. And I want to thank all three leaders for their personal partnership to get this done. I spoke with the Emir and President El-Sisi and the Prime Minister Netanyahu again on Wednesday to confirm the elements of the engagement. As I said, today’s release are the start of a process. We expect more hostages to be released tomorrow and more the day after and more the day after that. Over the next few days, we expect that dozens of hostages will be returned to their families. We also remember all those who are still being held and renew our commitment to work for their release as well. Two American women and one four-year-old child, Abigail, who remains among those missing. We also will not stop until we get these hostages brought home and an answer to their whereabouts. I remain in personal contact with the leaders of Qatar, Egypt, and Israel to make sure this stays on track and every aspect of the deal is implemented. You know, this extended pause in the fighting brings a critical opportunity to deliver much-needed food, medicine, water, and fuel to the civilians in Gaza, and we are not wasting one single minute. Since my trip to Israel last month, I’ve been focused on accelerating the delivery of humanitarian assistance to Gaza in coordination with the United Nations and the Red Cross. I just spoke with my Special Envoy for the Middle East Humanitarian Issues, David Satterfield, for an update, and I’ve asked him to monitor our progress hour by hour and keep me personally informed. From the beginning, we have put in place mechanisms to prevent Hamas from diverting these supplies, and we are continuing that effort to make sure aid gets to the people who need it. More than 200 trucks arrived at the crossing point in Egypt into Gaza today. These trucks carry food and medicine, as well as fue- — fuel and cooking gas. The fuel will be used not only to power the trucks delivering these lifesaving supplies but for desalinization, for water wells, for hospitals, and for bakeries. And hundreds more trucks are getting in position as well, ready to enter Gaza over the coming days to support the innocent Palestinians who are suffering greatly because of this war that Hamas has unleashed. Hamas doesn’t give a damn about them. We also look to the future. As we look to the future, we have to end this cycle of violence in the Middle East. We need to renew our resolve to pursue this two-state solution where Israelis and Palestinians can one day live side by side in a two-state solution with equal measure of freedom and dignity. Two states for two peoples. And it’s more important now than ever. Hamas unleashed this terrorist attack because they fear nothing more than Israelis and Palestinians living side by side in peace. You know, to continue down the path of terror and violence and killing and war is to give Hamas what they seek. And we can’t do that. So, today, let’s continue to be thankful for all the families who are now and those who will soon be brought together again. And I want to one — once again thank the Emir of Qatar, President Sisi of Egypt, and Prime Minister Netanyahu for their partnership to make what we’ve done so far possible and for their continued leadership as we all keep working to implement this deal. And over the coming days, I’ll remain engaged with leaders throughout the Middle East as we all work together to build a better future for the region — a future where this kind of violence is unthinkable; a future where all children in the region — every child — Jewish, Muslim, Christian, Israeli, Palestinian, Arab — grow up knowing only peace. That’s what we do. We’re waiting now — it’ll be just a matter of — I thought maybe even as soon as by the time I got here. But in the next hour or so, we’ll know what the second wave of releases are. And I’m hopeful that it’s — it’s as — as we anticipate. So, thank you all for listening. I’ll take a few questions.
Well, hello, everyone. We’re going to extend this conference another five days. If that’s okay. Welcome to the final APEC Leaders’ session. Over the last few days, we’ve worked together — and I think that’s not an exagg- — that’s not hyperbole; we’ve worked together — to find ways to build an inclusive, resilient, and sustainable economies for the Asia-Pacific. And talked about the progress that requires partnership. Together — together, we laid out the work we’ll be undertaking to avert the worst impacts of the climate crisis. The U.S. companies have announced more than 500 billion dollars — investments into APEC economies to build new — new subsea cables, decarbonizing energy grids, and complete the largest U.S. airline expansion into the South Pacific in our history. Alongside 13 of our APEC partners, we also made historic progress yesterday on the Indo-Pacific Economic Framework, with the first-of-its-kind agreements to strengthen supply chains, accelerate our clean energy transition, and combat corruption. As we begin our discussions today, I want to highlight a few areas that I believe we can do even more, in my view. First, inclusive growth. When everyone in our economies has a chance to contribute, everyone gets a fair shot, we’re all — we all do better. So, today, I’m proud to announce that we’ve launched the Women in the Sustainable Economy Initiative. Partners — partners in this initiative have already pledged more than $900 million — $900 million to increase women participation in blue and green industries like forest management, clean energy, fisheries, and recycling. And if you wonder why I’m so enthusiastic about this, I got more women in my Cabinet than men, so I’ve got to get this straight. But all kidding aside, I think this is a very important initiative. Including by creating the first-ever facility dedicated to helping women and — women-led businesses and organizations in developing countries to gain access to climate finance. We’re also supporting programs that expand access to STEM education, to address laws that limit women’s equal access to land and natural resources. And we plan to invest in young women enter- — entrepreneurs in the maritime sector and to scale up these projects as well. And I — I challenge us all to find new ways we can seize the full potential of all of our people. Secondly, interconnected growth and technology. We’re going to see more technological change in the next 10 years than we’ve seen in the last 50 years. And I don’t think that’s hyperbole. I think you — we’re going to see that changing so rapidly. And together, we have to make sure it changes for the better. Matter of fact, the — Xi Jinping of China and I had a brief discussion about the impact of artificial intelligence and how we have to work on it. Together, we must ensure the change is for the better. And we must ensure that the digital technologies, like artificial intelligence, are used to uplift not limit the potential of our people. And that’s why earlier this summer, the United States brought together leading AI companies who agreed to voluntary com- — voluntary commitments to keep AI systems safe and trustworthy, including the following: Committing to independently test and secure — the security of their AI systems before these systems are released to the public. Two, committing to watermark content that is AI-generated so people know it’s been generated by artificial intelligence. Committing to prioritize and minimize the risks that AI systems can pose to society, like promoting bias or discrimination. Just last month, I signed an executive order here in the States to set new AI standards for public and private sectors in the United States, such as requiring developers of the most powerful AI systems to share their safety test results with the U.S. government — this is in the U.S.; strengthen technologies to protecting our privacy; and preventing employees from using AI to exploit their worker — employers from using AI to exploit their workers. We’re also expanding grants for AI research in key areas like healthcare and climate change, where it has great potential. But this is a shared challenge and requires shared solutions. And I would respectfully suggest all of us around this table have a responsibility to work together to seize the opportunities and manage the risks of this technology, which are so critical to our collective economic futures. And finally, as I said yesterday, America’s commitment to the Asia-Pacific is unwavering and, in our view, from America’s perspective, essential. I know Pre- — I know President — excuse me — I know President Boluarte is — shares this commitment. And I want — I want you to know: Next year, when the APEC Summit host, Peru — will help drive these economies forward when we hang out in Peru. The views are going to be nice, too. Well, so, as we begin our discussion, I’d like to take a moment to pass the ceremonial torch from the United States to Peru. Madam President, thank you, and the floor is yours. Madam President, we’re looking forward to that. I would now respectfully ask the press to leave. And I will soon turn it over to the International Monetary Fund. 11:38 A.M. PST
Sorry to keep you waiting. It’s my fault. It’s my fault. I was on the phone. Hello, everyone. We just came from a — please have a seat — a three-hour meeting with all 21 APEC economies discussing how to generate more growth and more opportunity in the region, particularly to deal with climate change. Today, we’re announcing progress on the important initiative that we proposed with 13 of my colleagues here and of our — of 13 r- — APEC partners — the Indo-Pacific Economic Framework — Australia, Brunei, Fiji, India, Indonesia, Japan, South Korea, Malaysia, New Zealand, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, Vietnam, and the United States. In May of 2022, we came together in Tokyo to launch negotiations on this so-called framework. We still have more work to do, but we’ve made substantial progress. In record time, we’ve reached consensus on three of the pillars of the IPEF. I hate acronyms. I apologize. The first, we signed a first-of-its-kind supply chain agreement to help identify supply chain bottlenecks before they become the kind of disruptions we saw during the COVID-19 pandemic. We saw what happened then in the United States and elsewhere. But the Unites States’ semiconductor supply chains dried up in Asia, and the United States — a lot of it shut down. This is an agreement we’ve been in — we put back in place. We could — if we had this agreement in place we’re talking about today, we would not have had to lay off so many auto workers because lack of semiconductors and many other examples. Second, we’ve concluded an agreement to accelerate the clean energy transition in the Indo-Pacific region, including by enabling greater U.S. and private sector investment in clean energy, innovation, and infrastructure in our partner countries. You heard discussions today about how there’s many opportunities and ideas that have — but being able to attract private sector investment and government investment is hard for many of these countries that have great ideas and great opportunities. Well, the solar investments in the Philippines is an example, offshore wind in Thailand and Indon- — Indonesia, joint investments between the United States and India on energy storage, and so much more. Third, we’ve concluded an agreement to combat corruption and improve tax administration to make sure that our trade and investment is clean and transparent and private companies don’t have any worry about their investments being used properly. And that’s exactly what we’ve done. Every business leader I’ve talked to and my colleagues have, they’re more likely to invest in a region if there’s less corruption, more transparency. And that’s exactly what this agreement does and would show them. But as I’ve said, we have more work to do. We made progress in high-standard trade rules that include strong labor and environmental standards. We’ve committed to extending our cooperation to challenges like artificial intelligence, energy security, and semiconductors. We’re launching a critical minerals dialogue to further strengthen our supply chains and create clean energy jobs. And today, I’m proud to announce that the United States is launching what we’ll call the Investment Accelerator through our Partnership for the Global Infrastructure and Investment. The Accelerator is going to bring private capital off the sidelines for major investments in clean energy and high technology. You’ve heard every one of my colleagues say one time or another that this can’t be done without trillions of dollars of private sector investment — to get hold of this and get ahold of it quickly to give them confidence to make those investments. That’s going to create a pipeline of projects in partner countries and then match private sector financing with these projects. And it’s going to give those private sector investors confidence that their investment will be made according to the highest standards. Government investment is not enough. We need to mobilize private investment. And all the steps are going to help unlock this private investment, and — which is a necessary ingredient for success and rapid success in the area we’re talking about. Put simply, my colleagues and I are driving a race to the top among nations in the Indo-Pacific, driving nations to the top on standards, on transparency, on inclusivity and innovation. And, together, we’re going to be forging a better future — one where workers get a fair shot and a fair share of the value they create, where high standards and sustainable growth win out, where we harness the full power and potential of our people. We welcome other nations who share this vision for the future to join the 13 of us. Our economies will all be stronger because of it. Now I’d like to turn it over to a leader who has made part- — this partnership possible, Prime Minister Kishida of Japan. The floor is yours, Mr. Prime Minister. 4:49 P.M. PST
Good morning. Please, have a seat. Welcome to San Francisco. This Moscone Center is about as big as my state. This is a city of — synonymous with innovation and breaking barriers, where collaboration and coming together have always been key to unlocking our potential. It’s a city that has been shaped by centuries of deep ties to the Asia-Pacific region and by contributions of people of Asian and Pacific Island heritage. So, San Francisco is a natural place to gather to innovate and collaborate for the 2023 APEC Summit, the CEO Summit, and all the events we’re — taking place this week. And I want to to talk — I want to thank everyone who has made this week possible, especially those serving on APEC’s Executive Secretariat, APEC Business Advisory Council, the National Center for APEC, and so many others. Today, 21 APEC economies make up more than 60 percent — more than 60 percent of the global GDP. We’re almost half the global trade. The Asia-Pacific is projected to be the largest contributor of global growth over the next 30 years. So, the vision we pursue for the economic future of our region will rebound far beyond the Asia-Pacific. The choices we make are going to matter — it’s not hyperbole to suggest — for the entire world. It’s up to us to harness the dynamism of our economies and tap the entrepreneu- — entrepreneurial spirit of our people and unleash the potential — the unlimited potential of our partnerships in order to realize a future that will benefit people not only in the Asia-Pacific region but the whole world, and I mean that sincerely — people everywhere. A future where our prosperity is shared and is inclusive, where workers are empowered and their rights are respected, where our economies are sustainable and resilient, and the bridges that connect our people open a golden gate of opportunity to create lives of hope. Just lives of hope. Most people are just — just hope. You know, that’s been my approach here in the United States from the moment my administration took office. We’re building an economy from the middle out and the bottom up. The trickle-down economy worked okay sometimes, but not a whole lot trickled down to my dad’s kitchen table. But when the middle class does well, the poor have a chance and the wealthy still do very well. Because what happens — the poor have a ladder up, the middle class and the wealthy still do well. Folks, we’re already seeing the results. The last quarter, the American economy grew 4.9 percent — the highest growth rate in two years. More people in the United States — — because of many of you sitting here, the CEOs — — let’s give credit where it’s due — more people in the United States are in the workforce today than at any time in American history. Our unemployment has been under 4 percent for 21 straight months. Inflation has come down by 65 percent. More to do. We now have the lowest inflation of any — the lowest inflation rate of any advanced economy in the world. And meanwhile, median household wealth has grown by 37 percent in real terms since before the pandemic. I acknowledge there’s a disconnect between the numbers and how people feel about their place in the world right now, and we can deal with the second part as well. We still have work to do, but our model for growing is delivering real results for all Americans — significant Black unemployment, Latino unemployment, et cetera. The strength of our economy is driving growth and spurring investment throughout our entire region — and, again, because of many of you sitting in front of me made those judgements. And it’s drawing investments to the United States, especially from Asia-Pacific economies. Since the start of my administration, companies from across the Asia-Pacific have invested over $200 billion in the United States. These are historic investments, creating literally tens of thousands of good-paying jobs. We’re — 14 million created just since we came to office all across America in the industries that are going to shape the future of this globe: semiconductors, electric vehicles, batteries, critical materials, hydrogen hubs, and other critical and emerging technologies. I’ve long said: It’s never been a good bet to bet against the American people. Never. No, I mean it. Think about it. It’s never been a good bet, and we’re proving it once more. So, my message to all of you here today is: Leaders of government and industry, you can count on the United States. We’re delivering on our promises and we’re doubling down on our progress. We’ll soon — we’ll soon be your strong and steady partner as we continue working together to realize the Asia-Pacific region that is free and open, prosperous and secure, resilient and connected. By the way, twice since I’ve been president, I’ve had the leaders of the Asia-Pacific Islands come to meet with me in the United States. They’re all part of it. I thought when I left the G20 and Vietnam desperately wanted to see me and raise the relationship, it brought me back when I stood in front of that monument to John McCain — all my days growing up, I never thought that would ever occur. Today, I’d like to talk a little about the work we’ve done in the region to get there and how we’re going to go about seeing this road forward. I’ve said for a long time: The United States is a Pacific power. I had that brief discussion yesterday with President Xi. He asked why we so — he had asked me before; I reminded him why I — we are so engaged in the Pacific. It’s because we’re a Pacific nation. And because of us, there’s been peace and security in the region, allowing you to grow. He didn’t disagree. By the way, it was a very good, straightforward meeting. We aren’t going anywhere. For decades, America’s enduring commitment to the region has been a springboard that’s enabled growth — transformative growth, ensured the open flow of commerce, and lifted millions of people out of poverty. Today, that relationship goes both ways. The United States remains vital to the future of the region, and the region is more vital than ever to the United States of America. That’s been my administration’s outlook from day one, and we clearly laid out our approach with our Indo-Pacific Strategy. We are delivering across the board, including when it comes to our shared economic agenda. The United States has deep ties with our fellow APEC economies. More than 60 percent of U.S. exports go to fellow APEC economies. Robust, two-way investment between the United States and APEC countries supports good jobs and new opportunities all across the region. And American businesses — significantly represented here in this auditorium — are the largest source of foreign direct investment into APEC economies. In fact, if we take just the U.S. companies represented here at this summit and look at their new investments APEC economies in the calendar year, it totaled more than $50 billion so far. Investments announced today from co- — from companies like Amazon, United, Delta, Microsoft to make sure our region is more inclusive and interconnected. Investments announced today from companies like Boeing, Apple, Flexport, and Pepsi-Cola — the Pepsi company, I should say — to make our economies greener and more sustainable. Investments today from companies like IBM, Organon, Visa — look, they make up — they make our region more resilient and ma- — you all make it more secure. Here in this world — this world-renowned hub of innovation, leading — leading tech companies like Anthropic and — I’m going to mispronounce — I’m not going to even try. It’s better not to try and not mispronounce than try and mispronounce. The point is: Small- and medium-sized businesses and startups are getting into action as well. All of the announcements translate into real country — real outcomes that matter to people’s lives. They’re proof that a strong, dynamic American economy is an engine of growth — economic growth and innovation throughout the entire region. And they’re testament to the fact that American investment and American ingenuity are in high demand all across the region. Because when you do business with the United States and our companies, you know what you’re getting: high standards, fair practices, protections for workers, world-class ideas and innovation, and a commitment to deal with the environment, finally. It’s a quality guarantee. Look, this is how we’ve been able to mobilize billions in investment, including major new announcements this morning through our Partnership for Global In- — Infrastructure and Investment. We also worked closely to deepen our bilateral economic cooperation with partners throughout the region, especially on the issues that will most impact our future economic success. For example, in September when I traveled to Vietnam, as I mentioned earlier, to mark a historic new phase in our partnership of our countries, we committed to work together to strengthen the semiconductor supply chain. With India, Japan, Republic of Korea, and Singapore, we’ve launched new initiatives to shape the technologies and standards that will transform the future. We’ve deepened economic partnership with the Philippines, Indonesia, Australia, and others. We’ve renewed and elevated our engagement with critical regional bodies, including ASEAN and the Pacific Islands Forum. And when we — and when we offered to host APEC two years ago, we committed to modernizing this institution to make it easier for us to work together as we take on the challenges of a new era. And there are many challenges. We’re going to see more changes in the next 10 years than we’ve seen in the last 50 years. That brings me back to the summit and where we go from here. The world is fundamentally different than it was 30 years ago at the first annual APEC Leaders’ Meeting at Blake Island in Washington State. The questions we must answer today are not about how much we trade, but about how we build resilience, lift up working people, reduce carbon emissions, and set up our economies to succeed over the long run. How to deliver growth from the bottom up and the middle out so no one gets left behind. And the idea behind this new Indo-Pacific Economic Framework — a partnership among 14 diverse and dynamic nations, all committed to tackling urgent issues like pandemic response, vulnerable supply chains, climate change, and natural disasters, which we have learned can gravely impact our economies. We’ve announced the framework in May of 2022. And later today, we are launching an important new tool to promote sustainable economic growth and create a race to the top, not the bottom. They are tangible commitments negotiated in record time that are going to deliver meaningful outcomes — meaningful outcomes to make supply chains more resilient, facilitate clean-energy transition, and fight corruption. For example, our new supply chain agreement will allow us to better monitor for supply chain challenges before they become the kind of full-scale disruptions we saw during the COVID-19 pandemic and to ensure we’re better prepared to shift and adapt when disruptions do occur. And they will. I know you all know better than I our work is not yet done. This framework will be a platform for ongoing economic cooperation. And we will continue working to better facilitate high-standard trade that advances workers’ rights through strong enforcement of labor standards. And every step — at every step, we have upheld our commitment to unions. Each of the framework pillars includes strong, pro-labor outcomes that will benefit workers of all economies. It’s critical to building a stronger, fairer, more resilient economy for families across the Indo-Pacific. This week, my administration has launched our new Global Labor Strategy to ensure that workers’ rights are the centerpiece of our economic strategy internationally, as well as domestically. That’s a primary concern to me. Last week in Illinois, I congratulated the UAW on their record contract with the Big Three U.S. auto companies. The contract is going to lead to thousands of new jobs, billions of dollars in plant investment to keep American auto industry strong and competitive. And I urge any company investing in America to enter into partnerships with the most highly skilled, dedicated, and engaged workers anywhere in the world: American labor. And, folks, I asked the Treasury Department to do a study: When labor does well, what does that do to people all o- — all over — non-labor folks around the country? Everyone benefits. And, by the way, the reason many of you use labor is because they’re the best workers in the world. Union. It’s not like you show up one day and say, “I want to be an electrician.” You show up one day and they say, “You got five years to practice.” And then you get a card. I’m also intent on responsibly managing the competition between the United States and the People’s Republic of China. That’s what we talked a little bit about yesterday — President Xi and I. That’s what the world expects of us. And I promise you, that’s what we’re doing. I met with Xi yesterday, leader to leader, to make sure there is no miscommunication between us. As always — and I’ve met with him more than any other world leader, because when I was Vice President, it was concluded that I should get to know him. It wasn’t appropriate for the President of the United States to be meeting with the Vice President. We’ve had, prior to this, 68 hours of private meetings just he and I, each with a simultaneous interpreter. Our discussions have always been candid and constructive. I again emphasized to President Xi that the United States does not seek conflict. And yesterday, we announced resumption of military-to-military communication channels to reduce the risk of accidental miscalculation. And it exists. This is not — as my generation would say back in the day, this is not all “Kumbaya.” But it’s straightforward. It’s straightforward. We have real differences with Beijing when it comes to maintaining fair and level economic playing field and protecting your intellectual property. We’re going to continue to address them with smart policies and strong diplomacy. We’ve also taken targeted action to protect our vital national security interest. But let me be clear: We are de-risking and diversifying our econ- — economic relationship with the PRC, not decoupling. Not decoupling. We’ll be firm in standing up for our values and our interests. And I was very straightforward, as he was with me yesterday. At the same time, on critical global issues such as climate, AI, counternarcotics, where it makes sense to work together, we’ve committed to work together. We’re going to continue our commitment to diplomacy to avoid surprises and prevent misunderstandings. A stable relationship between the world’s two largest economies is not merely good for those two economies but for the world — a stable relationship. It’s good for everyone. Let me close with this. The Leaders’ Statement from that first Blake Island summit 30 years ago captured a shared commitment to, quote, “deepening the spirit of community,” end of quote, among our economies. For all that has changed over the past three decades, we have to continue to summon the spirit of community to meet the challenges of today and to seize the enormous possibilities that exist. My staff is tired of hearing me say this for the last I don’t know how many years: The world is at an inflection point where the decisions we make today — this is not hyperbole — are going to shape the direction of the world for decades to come — for decades to come. Just think of AI. That’s particularly true in the Asia-Pacific, where so much of the future of our world will be written. And I would argue, each of us has a play — has a part to play in writing that future together. So, today, I challenge all of us to measure our successes not based on the bottom lines of our balance sheets but by the lives we lift up through our investments, the potential we unleash with our innovation, and the ability to continue to talk with one another. Let’s build a global economy where everyone has a chance to succeed and workers have a fair shot, a fair share of the value they create. The United States is stepping up because of many of you in this room. We’re not talking the talk; we’re backing it up with commitments. And we’re going to see us — you’re going to see us follow through. So, I want to thank you again for joining us in San Francisco; thank you for your commitment to APEC and the future of the Pacific — Asia-Pacific region; and thank you for everything you’ve already done to make this summit a success. We can do more. God bless you all. Thank you. 11:41 A.M. PST
Good morning, everyone. I’m honored to welcome all of you to the White House. I really are — am honored to have you here for the inaugural leaders meeting of the Americas Partnership for Economic Prosperity. Last year in Los Angeles at the Summit of the Americas, we launched an agenda for cooperation, common purpose, and transformative ideals to better deliver for the people all across and up and down our region. One key outcome of the summit was this partnership and 12 countries committing to drive innovative approaches to shared challenges. To grow our economies from the bottom up, and the middle out, because of that — when we do it that way, everyone does well. The wealthy do just fine, but we — the middle-class and working-class people have a shot. And to increase opportunity and decrease inequity; to harness the incredible economic potential of the Americas; and to make the Western Hemisphere the most economically competitive region in the world. I think that’s totally within our reach. Over the last year and a half, everyone has stepped up and we’ve stepped up together. And the initiatives we are announcing today speak to the progress we’ve already made and the potential of the Americas Partnership going forward. First, we’re doubling down on mobilizing financial solutions in the Americas. The United States is already the largest source of investment across Latin America and the Caribbean by far. And we want to make sure that our closest neighbors know they have a real choice between debt-trap diplomacy and high-quality, transparent approaches to infrastructure and to development. So, the U.S. International Development Finance Corporation and the Inter-American Development Bank are launching a new investment platform to channel billions of dollars toward building sustainable infrastructure in the hemisphere and strengthening critical supply chains. Modern ports, clean-energy grids, digital infrastructure — these are the building blocks — the building blocks to — for a competitive and resilient economy. And by can- — combining the commitment of the United States government to miti- — to mitigate investment risk with the agility of private sector financing, we believe we can deliver gains for workers and families throughout the region. The United States is al- — also working with the Inter-American Development Bank to establish a Fund for Nature to seed more investment in nature-based climate solutions like debt-for-nature swaps and blue and green bonds. I supported a debt-for-nature swaps dating back to my time in the United States Senate, and this is a ripe area for considerable growth in my view. Investors are eager to support projects that — that are — with demonstrated potential. And by providing early-stage funding the technical assistance, we will help more promising climate solutions get off the ground than ever before. We can support more projects like trailblazing deal we saw earlier this year restructuring Ecuador’s international debt within ge- — and will generate hundreds of millions of dollars in marine conservation work around the Galapagos Islands. The second thing we’re doing: We’re investing in our people in each of our countries. All across the region, entrepreneurs are ready to break out. Investors are changing the way we think. Workers are ready to roll up their sleeves. And we’re going to make sure they have the skills and the resources they need in order to succeed. Today, we’re launching the Americas Partnership Accelerator — a multiyear program to help promising entrepreneurs develop and fund their ideas. This is an example of what we can deliver when we work together. Canada is joining the United States with funding to launch the Accelerator, and Uruguay is leading the creation — leading the creation of an angel investor network — individuals who mobilize venture capital from around the world to support the Accelerator. I thank Prime Minister Trudeau and President — and I think Prime Minister Trudeau and President Lacalle are also — and I also thank President Chaves for — I want to thank them for committing to establish a new regional Center of Excellence in Costa Rica. The Center will provide educational training that’s going to help equip workers in the hemisphere to lead in the digital economy — the digital economy of the future, working in fields like cybersecurity and semiconductor manufacturing. And President Boric, we — I want to thank you for committing Chile to lead new initiatives to build our regional space industry so we can better harness satellite technology and tackle vital issues, from climate change to food insecurity. And finally, we’re affirming our region-wide approach to sharing responsibility for managing the challenges of unprecedented migration flows. With the Los Angeles Declaration on Migration and Protection, we committed to work together to address the historic levels of migration impacting all — all of our countries. Our shared approach has three key parts. One, working together to stabilize migrant populations, including making sure the communities that are welcoming migrants and refugees can afford — can afford to welcome them and afford to care for them. And two — as part of that commitment, the United States and Canada and Spain are contributing to the Inter-American Development Bank’s Migration Grant Facility to help countries that are approaching — that are providing migrants with legal status, supporting the critical services necessary for communities to live in safety and, maybe most importantly, in d- — with dignity. Second thing we’re doing: expanding legal pathways to promise — to promote safe and orderly migration, providing worker permits to allow migrants to contribute to our economy. This is a critical asset and — to all of our countries. And three, enforcing our immigration laws in a humane and effective ways that deter — that deters dangerous, irregular migration and disrupts traffickers. I’ve asked the United States Congress for supplemental funds to carry out this three-part strategy in our country, and I urge them to act quickly. So, let me close with this. Our region is forever knit together by the close bonds of family and enduring friendship. The United States — it is not hyperbole to suggest — is shaped by the rich contributions of people from all across this region. We are a country of immigrants. More than 63 million Latinos and millions more with roots in the Caribbean are strengthening communities all across the United States of America, and it’s a big deal. The United States currently has the fourth-largest Spanish-speaking population in the world. About a quarter of the children in our public schools today are Hispanic. In each of our countries, our people are young and dynamic and diverse, poised to seize the future. And I think they really are. All we need to do is keep going, keep delivering on the positive vision we all share for a region that is secure, prosperous, and democratic — from Canada’s northernmost reaches to the southern tip of Chile. And I hope you share my view as we look forward to our next leaders meeting in Costa Rica in 2025. I want to thank you for all carrying our momentum forward. President Chaves, thank you. And at th- — at that meeting, I hope to see more countries from the region join us as we seek to expand this partnership. Thanks again for everyone around this table. We got a lot of work to do. Your partnership and your leadership is important. And we’re going to accomplish an awful lot, God willing, in the next few years. And I know — I’ll ask the press now to depart, which they always love hearing, so we can get down to business. So, thank you very, very much. 10:10 A.M. EDT
Good evening, my fellow Americans. We’re facing an inflection point in history — one of those moments where the decisions we make today are going to determine the future for decades to come. That’s what I’d like to talk with you about tonight. You know, earlier this morning, I returned from Israel. They tell me I’m the first American president to travel there during a war. I met with the Prime Minister and members of his cabinet. And most movingly, I met with Israelis who had personally lived through horrific horror of the attack by Hamas on the 7th of October. More than 1,300 people slaughtered in Israel, including at least 32 American citizens. Scores of innocents — from infants to elderly grandparents, Israelis, Americans — taken hostage. As I told the families of Americans being held captive by Hamas, we’re pursuing every avenue to bring their loved ones home. As President, there is no higher priority for me than the safety of Americans held hostage. The terrorist group Hamas unleashed pure, unadulterated evil in the world. But sadly, the Jewish people know, perhaps better than anyone, that there is no limit to the depravity of people when they want to inflict pain on others. In Israel, I saw a people who are strong, determined, resilient, and also angry, in shock, and in deep, deep pain. I also spoke with President Abbas of the Palestinian Authority and reiterated that the United States remains committed to the Palestinian people’s right to dignity and to self-determination. The actions of Hamas terrorists don’t take that right away. Like so many other, I am heartbroken by the tragic loss of Palestinian life, including the explosion at a hospital in Gaza — which was not done by the Israelis. We mourn every innocent life lost. We can’t ignore the humanity of innocent Palestinians who only want to live in peace and have an opportunity. You know, the assault on Israel echoes nearly 20 months of war, tragedy, and brutality inflicted on the people of Ukraine — people that were very badly hurt since Putin launched his all-out invasion. We’ve have not forgotten the mass graves, the bodies found bearing signs of torture, rape used as a weapon by the Russians, and thousands and thousands of Ukrainian children forcibly taken into Russia, stolen from their parents. It’s sick. Hamas and Putin represent different threats, but they share this in common: They both want to completely annihilate a neighboring democracy — completely annihilate it. Hamas — its stated purpose for existing is the destruction of the State of Israel and the murder of Jewish people. Hamas does not represent the Palestinian people. Hamas uses Palestinian civilians as human shields, and innocent Palestinian families are suffering greatly because of them. Meanwhile, Putin denies Ukraine has or ever had real statehood. He claims the Soviet Union created Ukraine. And just two weeks ago, he told the world that if the United States and our allies withdraw — and if the United States withdraw, our allies will as well — military support for Ukraine, it would have, quote, “a week left to live.” But we’re not withdrawing. I know these conflicts can seem far away. And it’s natural to ask: Why does this matter to America? So let me share with you why making sure Israel and Ukraine succeed is vital for America’s national security. You know, history has taught us that when terrorists don’t pay a price for their terror, when dictators don’t pay a price for their aggression, they cause more chaos and death and more destruction. They keep going, and the cost and the threats to America and to the world keep rising. So, if we don’t stop Putin’s appetite for power and control in Ukraine, he won’t limit himself just to Ukraine. He’s — Putin has already threated to “remind” — quote, “remind” Poland that their western land was a gift from Russia. One of his top advisors, a former president of Russia, has called Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania Russia’s “Baltic provinces.” These are all NATO Allies. For 75 years, NATO has kept peace in Europe and has been the cornerstone of American security. And if Putin attacks a NATO Ally, we will defend every inch of NATO which the treaty requires and calls for. We will have something that we do not seek — make it clear: we do not seek — we do not seek to have American troops fighting in Russia or fighting against Russia. Beyond Europe, we know that our allies and, maybe most importantly, our adversaries and competitors are watching. They’re watching our response in Ukraine as well. And if we walk away and let Putin erase Ukraine’s independence, would-be aggressors around the world would be emboldened to try the same. The risk of conflict and chaos could spread in other parts of the world — in the Indo-Pacific, in the Middle East — especially in the Middle East. Iran is — is supporting Russia’s U- — in Ukraine, and it’s supporting Hamas and other terrorist groups in the region. And we’ll continue to hold them accountable, I might add. The United States and our partners across the region are working to build a better future for the Middle East, one where the Middle East is more stable, better connected to its neighbors, and — through innovative projects like the India-Middle East-Europe rail corridor that I announced this year at the summit of the world’s biggest economies. More predictable markets, more employment, less rage, less grievances, less war when connected. It benefits the people — it would benefit the people of the Middle East, and it would benefit us. American leadership is what holds the world together. American alliances are what keep us, America, safe. American values are what make us a partner that other nations want to work with. To put all that at risk if we walk away from Ukraine, if we turn our backs on Israel, it’s just not worth it. That’s why, tomorrow, I’m going to send to Congress an urgent budget request to fund America’s national security needs, to support our critical partners, including Israel and Ukraine. It’s a smart investment that’s going to pay dividends for American security for generations, help us keep American troops out of harm’s way, help us build a world that is safer, more peaceful, and more prosperous for our children and grandchildren. In Israel, we must make sure that they have what they need to protect their people today and always. The security package I’m sending to Congress and asking Congress to do is an unprecedented commitment to Israel’s security that will sharpen Israel’s qualitative military edge, which we’ve committed to — the qualitative military edge. We’re going to make sure Iron Dome continues to guard the skies over Israel. We’re going to make sure other hostile actors in the region know that Israel is stronger than ever and prevent this conflict from spreading. Look, at the same time, President Netanyahu and I discussed again yesterday the critical need for Israel to operate by the laws of war. That means protecting civilians in combat as best as they can. The people of Gaza urgently need food, water, and medicine. Yesterday, in discussions with the leaders of Israel and Egypt, I secured an agreement for the first shipment of humanitarian assistance from the United Nations to Palestinian civilians in Gaza. If Hamas does not divert or steal this shipment — these shipments, we’re going to provide an opening for sustained delivery of lifesaving humanitarian assistance for the Palestinians. And as I said in Israel: As hard as it is, we cannot give up on peace. We cannot give up on a two-state solution. Israel and Palestinians equally deserve to live in safety, dignity, and peace. You know, and here at home, we have to be honest with ourselves. In recent years, too much hate has been given too much oxygen, fueling racism, a rise in antisemitism and Islamicphobia right here in America. It’s also intensified in the wake of recent events that led to the horrific threats and attacks that both shock us and break our hearts. On October 7th, terror attacks have triggered deep scars and terrible memories in the Jewish community. Today, Jewish families worried about being targeted in school, wearing symbols of their faith walking down the street, or going out about their daily lives. You know, I know many of you in the Muslim American community or the Arab American community, the Palestinian American community, and so many others are outraged and hurting, saying to yourselves, “Here we go again,” with Islamophobia and distrust we saw after 9/11. Just last week, a mother was brutally stabbed, a little boy — here in the United States — a little boy who had just turned six years old was murdered in their home outside of Chicago. His name was Wadea — Wadea — a proud American, a proud Palestinian American family. We can’t stand by and stand silent when this happens. We must, without equivocation, denounce antisemitism. We must also, without equivocation, denounce Islamophobia. And to all of you hurting — those of you who are hurting, I want you to know: I see you. You belong. And I want to say this to you: You’re all America. You’re all America. This is in a moment where there’s — you know, in moments like these, when fear and suspicion, anger and rage run hard, that we have to work harder than ever to hold on to the values that make us who we are. We’re a nation of religious freedom, freedom of expression. We all have a right to debate and disagree without fear of being targeted at schools or workplaces or in our communities. And we must renounce violence and vitriol, see each other not as enemies but as — but as fellow Americans. When I was in Israel yesterday, I said that when America experienced the hell of 9/11, we felt enraged as well. While we sought and got justice, we made mistakes. So, I cautioned the government of Israel not to be blinded by rage. And here in America, let us not forget who we are. We reject all forms — all forms of hate, whether against Muslims, Jews, or anyone. That’s what great nations do, and we are great nation. On Ukraine, I’m asking Congress to make sure we can continue to send Ukraine the weapons they need to defend themselves and their country without interruption so Ukraine can stop Putin’s brutality in Ukraine. They are succeeding. When Putin invaded Ukraine, he thought he would take Kyiv and all of Ukraine in a matter of days. Well, over a year later, Putin has failed, and he continues to fail. Kyiv still stands because of the bravery of the Ukrainian people. Ukraine has regained more than 50 percent of the territory Russian troops once occupied, backed by a U.S.-led coalition of more than 50 countries around the world all doing its part to support Kyiv. What would happen if we walked away? We are the essential nation. Meanwhile, Putin has turned to Iran and North Korea to buy attack drones and ammunition to terrorize Ukrainian cities and people. From the outset, I have said I will not send American troops to fight in Ukraine. All Ukraine is asking for is help — for the weapons, munitions, the capacity, the capability to push invading Russian forces off their land, and the air defense systems to shoot down Russian missiles before they destroy Ukrainian cities. And let me be clear about something: We send Ukraine equipment sitting in our stockpiles. And when we use the money allocated by Congress, we use it to replenish our own stores — our own stockpiles with new equipment — equipment that defe- — that defends America and is made in America: Patriot missiles for air defense batteries made in Arizona; artillery shells manufactured in 12 states across the country — in Pennsylvania, Ohio, Texas; and so much more. You know, just as in World War Two, today, patriotic American workers are building the arsenal of democracy and serving the cause of freedom. Let me close with this. Earlier this year, I boarded Air Force One for a secret flight to Poland. There, I boarded a train with blacked-out windows for a 10-hour ride each way to Kyiv to stand with the people of Ukraine ahead of the one-year anniversary of their brave fight against Putin. I’m told I was the first American to enter a warzone not controlled by the United States military since President Lincoln. With me was just a small group of security personnel and a few advisors. But when I exited that train and met Zelenskyy — President Zelenskyy, I didn’t feel alone. I was bringing with me the idea of America, the promise of America to the people who are today fighting for the same things we fought for 250 years ago: freedom, independence, self-determination. And as I walked through Kyiv with President Zelenskyy, with air raid sirens sounding in the distance, I felt something I’ve always believed more strongly than ever before: America is a beacon to the world still. Still. We are, as my friend Madeleine Albright said, “the indispensable nation.” Tonight, there are innocent people all over the world who hope because of us, who believe in a better life because of us, who are desperate not be forgotten be- — by us, and who are waiting for us. But time is of the essence. I know we have our divisions at home. We have to get past them. We can’t let petty, partisan, angry politics get in the way of our responsibilities as a great nation. We cannot and will not let terrorists like Hamas and tyrants like Putin win. I refuse to let that happen. In moments like these, we have to remind — we have to remember who we are. We are the United States of America — the United States of America. And there is nothing — nothing beyond our capacity if we do it together. My fellow Americans, thank you for your time. May God bless you all. And may God protect our troops. 8:17 P.M. EDT ###
Folks, there is an Irish poet named William Butler Yeats, and he wrote a line — he said: Too long a suffering makes a stone of the heart. Too long a suffering makes a stone of the heart. The thing that I found at just this real quick meeting with all of you is none of your hearts have turned to stone yet. Every one of you talked about what you have to do — every one I talked to — about having to reach out, talked about, whether or not they were a Jew or a Muslim, reach out. And, you know, I’ve often said I remember the first time that I was in Israel with Golda Meir. She was — just before the Six-Day War. And she was telling me how terrible everything was, which it was. She kept flipping the maps up and down behind her. And all of the sudden, she looked at me, and she said, “Would you like a photograph?” And I thought, “That’s unusual.” And w- — she just got up and walked out that door outside her office. And we’re standing there having a photograph taken like you and I are standing, looking at the press. And she — without looking at me, she turned and she — like this, and she said, “You look worried, Senator.” I said, “I am.” She said, “Don’t worry, we Jews have a secret weapon in our fight: We have no place else to go.” Well, the truth of the matter is, if there weren’t an Israel, we’d have to invent one. The truth of the matter is that I believe that yo- — as I went home and said — I got in trouble at the time, but it was true: You don’t have to be a Jew to be a Zionist. You don’t have to be a Jew to be a Zionist. And I think the security and safety of Jews worldwide is anchored in the re- — the continued vibrance of the State of Israel. That’s what I think it’s about at its core. And so, I’ve admired you — you all, this country for so long. And I’m convinced that the more people know the — your responses to what’s happening as opposed to just what war and peace is about, the more they’re going to be inclined embrace — embrace Israel. And — but I have a lot more to say. But I’d like to talk to you in private, if I can. 
Good afternoon. Please have a seat. I come to Israel with a single message: You are not alone. You are not alone. As long as the United States stands — and we will stand forever — we will not let you ever be alone. Most importantly, the — I know the recent terrorist assault on the people of this nation has left a deep, deep wound. More than 1,300 innocent Israelis killed, including at least 31 American citizens, by the terrorist group Hamas. Hundreds — hundreds of young people at a music festival of — the festival was for peace — for peace — gunned down as they ran for their lives. Scores of innocents — from infants to elderly grandparents, Israelis and Americans — taken hostage. Children slaughtered. Babies slaughtered. Entire families massacred. Rape, beheadings, bodies burned alive. Hamas committed atrocities that recall the worst ravages of ISIS, unleashing pure unadulterated evil upon the world. There is no rationalizing it, no excusing it. Period. The brutality we saw would have cut deep anywhere in the world, but it cuts deeper here in Israel. October 7th, which was a sacred to — a sacred Jewish holiday, became the deadliest day for the Jewish people since the Holocaust. It has brought to the surface painful memories and scars left by a millennia of antisemitism and the genocide of the Jewish people. The world watched then, it knew, and the world did nothing. We will not stand by and do nothing again. Not today, not tomorrow, not ever. To those who are living in limbo waiting desperately to learn the fate of loved ones, especially to families of the hostages: You’re not alone. We’re working with partners throughout the region, pursuing every avenue to bring home those who are being held captive by Hamas. I can’t speak publicly about all the details, but let me assure you: For me as the American president, there is no higher priority than the release and safe return of all these hostages. To those who are grieving a child, a parent, a spouse, a sibling, a friend, I know you feel like there’s that black hole in the middle of your chest. You feel like you’re being sucked into it. The survivor’s remorse, the anger, the questions of faith in your soul. Starting at — staring at that empty chair, sitting Shiva. The first Sabbath without them. They are the everyday things — the small things that you miss the most. The scent when you open the closet door. The morning coffee you shared together. The bend in his smile, the perfect pitch of her laugh, the giggle of your little boy — the baby. For those who have lost loved ones, this is what I know: They’ll never be truly gone. There’s something that’s never fully lost: your love for them and their love for you. And I promise you, you’ll be walking along some days and say, “What would she or he want me to do?” You’ll smile when you pass a place that reminds you of them. That’s when you know — when a smile comes to your lips before a tear to your eye — that’s when you know you’re going to fully make it. That’s what will give you the fortitude to find light in the darkest hours when terrorists believed they could bring down — bring you down, bend your will, break your resolve. But they never did, and they never will. Instead, we saw incredible stories of heroism and courage of Israelis taking care of one another. Neighbors forming watch groups to protect their kibbutz, opening their homes to shelter survivors. Retired soldiers running into danger once again. Civilian medics flying across rescue — flying rescue missions. And off-duty medics at the musical festival caring for the wounded before coming victim — before becoming a victim themselves. Volunteers retrieving bodies of the dead so families could bury their loved ones in accordance with Jewish tradition. Reservists leaving behind their families, their honeymoons, their studies abroad without hesitation. And so much more. The State of Israel was born to be a safe place for the Jewish people of the world. That’s why it was born. I have long said: If Israel didn’t exist, we would have to invent it. And while it may not feel that way today, Israel must again be a safe place for the Jewish people. And I promise you: We’re going to do everything in our power to make sure that it will be. Seventy-five years ago, just 11 minutes after its founding, President Harry S. Truman and the United States of America became the first nation to recognize Israel. We have stood by your side ever since, and we’re going to stand by your side now. My administration has been in close touch with your leadership from the first moments of this attack, and we are going to make sure we have — you have what you need to protect your people, to defend your nation. For decades, we’ve ensured Israel’s qualitative military edge. And later this week, I’m going to ask the United States Congress for an unprecedented support package for Israel’s defense. We are going to keep Iron Dome fully supplied so it can continue standing sentinel over Israeli skies, saving Israeli lives. We have moved U.S. military assets to the region, including positioning the USS Ford carrier strike group in the Eastern Mediterranean, with the USS Eisenhower on the way, to deter — to defer further aggression against Israel and to prevent this conflict from spreading. The world will know that Israel is — Israel is stronger than ever. And my message to any state or any other hostile actor thinking about attacking Israel remains the same as it was a week ago: Don’t. Don’t. Don’t. Since this terrorist attack — terrorist attack took place, we have seen it described as Israel’s 9/11. But for a nation the size of Israel, it was like 15 9/11s. The scale may be different, but I’m sure those horrors have tapped into so- — some kind of primal feeling in Israel, just like it did and felt in the United States. Shock, pain, rage — an all-consuming rage. I understand, and many Americans understand. You can’t look at what has happened here to your mothers, your fathers, your grandparents, sons, daughters, children — even babies — and not scream out for justice. Justice must be done. But I caution this: While you feel that rage, don’t be consumed by it. After 9/11, we were enraged in the United States. And while we sought justice and got justice, we also made mistakes. I’m the first U.S. president to visit Israel in time of war. I’ve made wartime decisions. I know the choices are never clear or easy for the leadership. There’s always costs. But it requires being deliberate. It requires asking very hard questions. It requires clarity about the objectives and an honest assessment about whether the path you are on will achieve those objectives. The vast majority of Palestinians are not Hamas. Hamas does not represent the Palestinian people. Hamas uses innocents — innocent families in Gaza as human shields, putting their command centers, their weapons, their communications tunnels in residential areas. The Palestinian people are suffering greatly as well. We mourn the loss of innocent Palestinian lives. Like the entire world, I was outraged and saddened by the enormous loss of life yesterday in the hospital in Gaza. Based on the information we’ve seen to date, it appears the result of an errant rocket fired by a terrorist group in Gaza. The United States unequivocally stands for the protection of civilian life during conflict, and I grieve — I truly grieve for the families who were killed or wounded by this tragedy. The people of Gaza need food, water, medicine, shelter. Today, I asked the Israeli cabinet — who I met with for some time this morning — to agree to the delivery of lifesaving humanitarian assistance to civilians in Gaza. Based on the understanding that there will be inspections and that the aid should go to civilians, not to Hamas, Israel agreed that humanitarian assistance can begin to move from Egypt to Gaza. Let me be clear: If Hamas diverts or steals the assistance, they will have demonstrated once again that they have no concern for the welfare of the Palestinian people and it will end. As a practical matter, it will — it will stop the international community from being able to provide this aid. We’re working in close cooperation with the government of Egypt; the United Nations and its agencies, like the World Food Program; and other partners in the region to get trucks moving across the border as soon as possible. Separately, I asked Israel that the global community demand that the International Red Cross be able to visit hostages. I just demanded that the United States fully — a just demand that the United States fully supports. Today, I’m also announcing $100 million in new U.S. funding for humanitarian assistance in both Gaza and the West Bank. This money will support more than 1 million displaced and conflict-affected Palestinians, including emergency needs in Gaza. You are a Jewish state. You are a Jewish state, but you’re also a democracy. And like the United States, you don’t live by the rules of terrorists. You live by the rule of law. And when conflicts flare, you live by the ru- — law of wars. What sets us apart from the terrorists is we believe in the fundamental dignity of every human life — Israeli, Palestinian, Arab, Jew, Muslim, Christian — everyone. You can’t give up what makes you who you are. If you give that up, then the terrorists win. And we can never let them win. You know, Israel is a miracle — a triumph of faith and resolve and resilience over impossible pain and loss. Think about October 7th — the Jewish holiday where you read about the death of Moses. A tragic story of a profound loss to an entire nation. A death that could have left he- — a helpless — hopelessness in the hearts of the entire — of an entire nation. But though Moses died, his memory, his message, his lessons have lived on for generations of the Jewish people as well as many others — and just as the memory of your loved ones will live on as well. After reading the story of Moses’s death, those who observe the holiday begin reading the Torah from the very beginning. The story of creation reminds us of two things. First, that when we get knocked down, we get back up again and we begin anew. And second, when we are faced with tragedy and loss, we must go back to the beginning and remember who we are. We are all human beings created in the image of God with dignity, humanity, and purpose. In the darkness, to be the light unto the world is what we’re about. You inspire hope and light for so many around the world. That’s what the terrorists seek to destroy. That’s what they seek to destroy but — because they live in darkness — but not you, not Israel. Nations of conscience like the United States and Israel are not measured solely by the example of their power. We’re measured by the power of our example. That’s why, as hard as it is, we must keep pursuing peace. We must keep pursuing a path so that Israel and the Palestinian people can both live safely, in security, in dignity, and in peace. For me, that means a two-state solution. We must keep working for Israel’s greater integration with its neighbors. These attacks have only strengthened my commitment and determination and my will to get that done. I’m here to tell you that terrorists will not win. Freedom will win. So, let me end where I began. Israel, you are not alone. The United States stands with you. I told the story before and I’ll tell it again of my first meeting with an Israeli prime minister 50 years ago as a young senator. I was sitting across from Golda Meir at her desk in her office. And she had a guy named — a guy who later became prime minister sitting next to me, just before the 1973 Yom Kippur War. And she flipped the maps up and down, te- — telling me how bad things were and how terrible they were. All of the sudden, she looked and me, and she said, “Would you like a photograph?” And I looked at her — she got up from her desk and walked out into that hallway — I think it’s marble flooring — walked out in the hallway. We walked out, and there were a bunch of photographers standing in front of us. We were standing shoulder to shoulder. Without her looking at me, she said to me, knowing I’d hear her, “Why do you look so worried, Senator Biden?” And I said, “Worried?” Like, “Of course, I’m worried.” And she looked at me and — she didn’t look, she said, “We — don’t worry, Senator, we Israelis have a secret weapon: We have nowhere else to go.” Well, today, I say to all of Israel: The United States isn’t going anywhere either. We’re going to stand with you. We’ll walk beside you in those dark days, and we’ll walk beside you in the good days to come. And they will come. As you say in Hebrew, which I’m not going to attempt to do because I’m such a terrible linguist, I’ll say it in English, “The people of Israel live.” “The people of Israel live.” Israel will be a safe, secure, Jewish, and Democratic state today, tomorrow, and forever. May God protect all those who work for peace. God save those who are still in harm’s way. Thank you very much. 5:22 P.M. IDT
Good afternoon. You know, there are moments in this life — and I mean this literally — when the pure, unadulterated evil is unleashed on this world. The people of Israel lived through one such moment this weekend. The bloody hands of the terrorist organization Hamas — a group whose stated purpose for being is to kill Jews. This was an act of sheer evil. More than 1,000 civilians slaughtered — not just killed, slaughtered — in Israel. Among them, at least 14 American citizens killed. Parents butchered using their bodies to try to protect their children. Stomach-turning reports of being — babies being killed. Entire families slain. Young people massacred while attending a musical festival to celebrate peace — to celebrate peace. Women raped, assaulted, paraded as trophies. Families hid their fear for hours and hours, desperately trying to keep their children quiet to avoid drawing attention. And thousands of wounded, alive but carrying with them the bullet holes and the shrapnel wounds and the memory of what they endured. You all know these traumas never go away. There are still so many families desperately waiting to hear the fate of their loved ones, not knowing if they’re alive or dead or hostages. Infants in their mothers’ arms, grandparents in wheelchairs, Holocaust survivors abducted and held hostage — hostages whom Hamas has now threatened to execute in violation of every code of human morality. It’s abhorrent. The brutality of Hamas — this bloodthirstiness — brings to mind the worst — the worst rampages of ISIS. This is terrorism. But sadly, for the Jewish people, it’s not new. This attack has brought to the surface painful memories and the scars left by a millennia of antisemitism and genocide of the Jewish people. So, in this moment, we must be crystal clear: We stand with Israel. We stand with Israel. And we will make sure Israel has what it needs to take care of its citizens, defend itself, and respond to this attack. There is no justification for terrorism. There is no excuse. Hamas does not stand for the Palestinian people’s right to dignity and self-determination. Its stated purpose is the annihilation of the State of Israel and the murder of Jewish people. They use Palestinian civilians as human shields. Hamas offers nothing but terror and bloodshed with no regard to who pays the price. The loss of innocent life is heartbreaking. Like every nation in the world, Israel has the right to respond — indeed has a duty to respond — to these vicious attacks. I just got off the phone with — the third call with Prime Minister Netanyahu. And I told him if the United States experienced what Israel is experiencing, our response would be swift, decisive, and overwhelming. We also discussed how democracies like Israel and the United States are stronger and more secure when we act according to the rule of law. Terrorists purpo- — purposefully target civilians, kill them. We uphold the laws of war — the law of war. It matters. There’s a difference. Today, Americans across the country are praying for all those families that have been ripped apart. A lot of us know how it feels. It leaves a black hole in your chest when you lose family, feeling like you’re being sucked in. The anger, the pain, the sense of hopelessness. This is what they mean by a “human tragedy” — an atrocity on an appalling scale. But we’re going to s- — continue to stand united, supporting the people of Israel who are suffering unspeakable losses and opposing the hatred and violence of terrorism. My team has been in near constant communication with our Israeli partners and partners all across the region and the world from the moment this crisis began. We’re surging additional military assistance, including ammunition and interceptors to replenish Iron Dome. We’re going to make sure that Israel does not run out of these critical assets to defend its cities and its citizens. My administration has consulted closely with Congress throughout this crisis. And when Congress returns, we’re going to ask them to take urgent action to fund the national security requirements of our critical partners. This is not about party or politics. This is about the security of our world, the security of the United States of America. We now know that American citizens are among those being held by Hamas. I’ve directed my team to share intelligence and deploy additional experts from across the United States government to consult with and advise the Israeli counterparts on hostage recover- — recovery efforts, because as president I have no higher priority than the safety of Americans being held hostage around the world. The United States has also enhanced our military force posture in the region to strengthen our deterrence. The Department of Defense has moved the USS Gerald R. Ford Carrier Strike Group to the Eastern Mediterranean and bolstered our fighter aircraft presence. And we stand ready to move in additional assets as needed. Let me say again — to any country, any organization, anyone thinking of taking advantage of this situation, I have one word: Don’t. Don’t. Our hearts may be broken, but our resolve is clear. Yesterday, I also spoke with the leaders of France, Germany, Italy, and the UK to discuss the latest developments with our European allies and coordinate our united response. This comes on top of days of steady engagement with partners across the region. We’re also taking steps at home. In cities across the United States of America, police departments have stepped up security around centers for — of Jewish life. And the Department of Homeland Security and the Federal Bureau of Investigation are working closely with state and local law enforcement and Jewish community partners to identify and disrupt any domestic threat that could emerge in connection with these horrific attacks. This is a moment for the United States to come together, to grieve with those who are mourning. Let’s be real clear: There is no place for hate in America — not against Jews, not against Muslims, not against anybody. We reject — we reject — what we reject is terrorism. We condemn the indiscriminate evil, just as we’ve always done. That’s what America stands for. You know, just over 50 years ago — I was thinking about it this morning, talking with the Secretary of State, the Vice President in my office and — over 50 years ago, as a young senator, I visited Israel for the first time, as a newly elected senator. And I had a long, long trip — or meeting with Golda Meir in her office just before the Yom Kippur War. And I guess she could see the consternation on my face as she described what was being faced — they were facing. We walked outside in that — that sort of hallway outside her office to have some photos. She looked at me and w- — all of a sudden and said, “Would you like to have a photograph?” And so, I got up and followed her out. We were standing there silent, looking at the press. She could tell, I guess, I was concerned. She leaned over and whispered to me — she said, “Don’t worry, Senator Biden. We have a secret weapon here in Israel” — my word this is what she said — “We have no place else to go.” “We have no place else to go.” For 75 years, Israel has stood as the ultimate guarantor of security of Jewish people around the world so that the atrocities of the past could never happen again. And let there be no doubt: The United States has Israel’s back. We will make sure the Jewish and democratic State of Israel can defend itself today, tomorrow, as we always have. It’s as simple as that. These atrocities have been sickening. We’re — we’re with Israel. Let’s make no mistake. Thank you. 2:34 P.M. EDT
Good afternoon. Today, the people of Israel are under attack, orchestrated by a terrorist organization, Hamas. In this moment of tragedy, I want to say to them and to the world and to terrorists everywhere that the United States stands with Israel. We will not ever fail to have their back. We’ll make sure they have the help their citizens need and they can continue to defend themselves. You know, the world has seen appalling images: thousands of rockets in the space of hours raining down on Israeli cities. When I got up this morning and started this at 7:30, 8 o’clock — my calls. Hamas terrorists crossing into Israel killing not only Israeli soldiers, but Israeli civilians in the street, in their homes. Innocent people murdered, wounded, entire families taken hostage by Hamas just days after Israel marked the holiest of days on the Jewish calendar. It’s unconscionable. You know, when I spoke with Prime Minister Netanyahu this morning, I told him the United States stands with the people of Israel in the face of this terrorist assaults. Israel has the right to defend itself and its people. Full stop. There is never justification for terrorist acts. And my administration’s support for Israel’s security is rock solid and unwavering. Let me say this as clearly as I can: This is not a moment for any party hostile to Israel to exploit these attacks to seek advantage. The world is watching. I have also been in contact with the King of Jordan, spoken with members of Congress, directed my national security team to engage with their Israeli counterparts — military to military, intelligence to intelligence, diplo- — diplomat to diplomat — to make sure Israel has what it needs. I’ve also directed my team to remain in constant contact with leaders throughout the region, including Egypt, Turkey, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Jordan, Oman, the UAE, as well as with our European partners and the Palestinian Authority. This is also a terrible tragedy on a human level. It’s hurting innocent people — seeing the lives that have been broken by this, the families torn apart. It’s heart breaking. And Jill and I are praying for those families who have been impacted by this violence. We grieve with those who have lost their loved their ones, lost a piece of their soul. We have hope for a swift recovery for many who have been wounded. But we’re going to remain in close touch with Prime Minister — I, personally, am going to remain in close contact with Prime Minister Netanyahu as this situation continues to develop. And let there be no mistake: The United States stands with the State of Israel, just as we have from the moment the United States became the first nation to recognize Israel, 11 minutes after its founding, 75 years ago. Thank you very much. 2:51 P.M. EDT
Hello, hello? There you go. Everybody, welcome. My fellow leaders and friends, it’s an honor to welcome you here tonight. And I first want to thank Governor Hochul. I don’t know where — the governor is here somewhere. Gov, great to see you. Kathy, thank you very much for everything this great city has done to make this General Assembly a success. And I’m also grateful to the Director of Met, Max Hollein. Max, thank you and — for allowing us to gather here in this beautiful hall. Seventy-seven years ago, at the grand hall in London, our forebearers gathered for the first United Nations General Assembly. With honors — World War Two and the horrors of it weighing on their hearts and the hopes of humanity resting on their shoulders, they opened the Assembly by declaring, quote, “The whole world now waits upon our decisions…looking to us to show ourselves capable of mastering our problems.” End of quote. Ladies and gentlemen, we gather once again in the halls of history, with the whole world looking at us to lead, to prove ourselves worthy, to show ourselves capable of coming together to master the challenges of our time. Like our predecessors, we face a moment of great upheaval. A moment where basic principles like sovereignty, territorial integrity, universal human rights are being tested. You know, the mom- — a moment in historical challenges, from accelerating climate crisis to a once-in-a-century pandemic, have exposed inequity and exacerbated insecurities across the world. A moment where a member of the United Nations Security Council has launched a brazen and brutal attack against the people of Ukraine — attacks that go against the very character of the United Nations, against the very principles that have been the cornerstone of peace and prosperity since the first Assembly 77 years ago. Earlier today, I stood before the General Assembly and asked my fellow leaders a question: Will we do what we must be — must be done to address these challenges? Will we live up to the promise we made to ourselves and to each other and to generations to come? There can only be one answer to those questions: We must. We must. We must. And because of all the leaders in this room, I know that we will. Over the past two years, I’ve seen how all of you have worked to open the immense opportunities in the face of such immense challenges. How, together, we bridged the public and private sector to pioneer new ways forward on everything from technology to healthcare to human rights. How, day in and day out, you have worked to support the world’s most vulnerable. So, tonight my message is simple: Thank you. Thank you, thank you. And keep it up. Folks, our world stands at an inflection point, where the decisions we make now are going to determine our future for decades to come. We need you to help us set the course on a more stable and secure path. We need to continue tackling the challenges that most affect people’s lives, from conflict to climate change to corruption and beyond. We need you to partner with one another and with leaders around the world to sustain and update the institutions that have supported decades of progress since World War Two. We need you to help us unlock the trillions of private investment needed to accelerate progress and meet our highest hopes for humanity: ending hunger, eliminating poverty, expanding access to clean water and clean energy, reducing gender inequality, and increasing the quality of education and decent work, safe infrastructure. Reaching these hopes will take all of us. So, let me close with this. This museum — and if you haven’t had a chance to go through it, if you’ve not tonight, come back — contains some of the world’s greatest artifacts and artworks, including some of the copies of work of one my favorite poets, an Irishman named Seamus Heaney. He wrote a poem called “The Cure at Troy.” And it seems appropriate tonight. He said, “History says, don’t hope on this side of the grave. But then, once in a lifetime, that longed-for tidal wave of justice rises up, and hope and history rhyme.” Ladies and gentlemen, this is an age where we can once more make hope and history rhyme if we stick together, where together and only together can we can bend the arc of history in a better direction. Like our forebearers all those years ago, the world is not only waiting on us, it’s depending on us to master our challenges, to prove ourselves capable of forging a better future for humankind — one of greater dignity, opportunity, and security for all. So, thank you all for being here. And I look forward — I look forward to working together with all of you in the years ahead. May God bless you all. May God protect our troops. Thank you, thank you, thank you. 7:35 P.M. EDT
It’s an honor to be here with — with you, our first presidential summit — all the presidents around this table and the Secretary of State. I think this is a historic moment. We’re building on years of close cooperation between Central Asia and the United States — a cooperation that is grounded in our shared commitment to sovereignty, independence, territorial integrity. These principles matter more than ever, in my view. And today, we’re taking our cooperation to new heights. First, we’re strengthening our counterterrorism cooperation, including increased U.S. security funding to — to Central Asia. Second, we’re strengthening regional economic connectivity. For example, we’re establishing a new business platform to complement our diplomatic engagement and better connect our private sectors for development purposes. And we are — we are also discussing the potential for a new critical minerals dialogue to strengthen our energy security and supply chains for years to come. And third, we’re launching a new initiative on disability rights. And I want to thank you all for your fruitful conversation today, which has already taken place. And I look forward to working with all of you to do even more in the future. I am genuinely looking forward to following up on our — on this meeting, because we are stronger and I genuinely believe the world is safer when we stand together — our five nations. So, thank you very, very much for making the effort. And I look forward to seeing you soon, possibly in one of your countries. Thank you. 2:59 P.M. EDT ###
Mr. President, Mr. Secretary-General, and my fellow leaders, about a week ago I stood on the other side of the world in Vietnam on soil once bloody with war. And I met a small group of veterans, Americans and Vietnamese, who wit- — and I wa- — I watched an exchange of personal artifacts from that war — identification cards and a diary. It was deeply moving to see the reaction of the Vietnamese and American soldiers. A culmination of 50 years of hard work on both sides to address the painful legacies of war and to choose — to choose to work together toward peace and a better future. Nothing about that journey was inevitable. For decades, it would have been unthinkable for an American president to stand in Hanoi alongside a Vietnamese leader and announce a mutual commitment to the highest level of countries partnership. But it’s a powerful reminder that our history need not dictate our future. With a concerted leadership and careful effort, adversaries can become partners, overwhelming challenges can be resolved, and deep wounds can heal. So let us never forget that. When we choose to stand together and recognize the common hopes that bind all humanity, we hold our hands the power — in that power to bend that arc of history. My fellow leaders, we gather once more at an inflection point in world history with the eyes of the world upon all of you — all of us. As president of the United States, I understand the duty my country has to lead in this critical moment; to work with countries in every region linking them in common cause; to join together with partners who share a common vision of the future of the world, where our children do not go hungry and everyone has access quality healthcare, where workers are empowered and our environment is protected, where entrepreneurs and innovators everywhere can access opportunity everywhere, where conflicts are resolved peacefully and countries can chart their own course. The United States seeks a more secure, more prosperous, more equitable world for all people because we know our future is bound to yours. Let me repeat that again: We know our future is bound to yours. And no nation can meet the challenges of today alone. The generations who precede us — preceded us organized this body, the United Nations, and built international financial institutions and multilateral and regional bodies to help take on the challenges of their time. It isn’t always perfect — it wasn’t always perfect. But working together, the world made some remarkable and undeniable progress that improved the lives of all people. We avoided the renewal of global conflict while lifting more than 1 billion people — 1 billion people — out of extreme poverty. We together expanded access to education for millions of children. We saved tens of millions of lives that would have otherwise have been lost to preventable and treatable diseases like measles, malaria, tuberculosis. HIV/AIDS infections and deaths plummeted in no small part because of PEPFAR’s work in more than 55 countries, saving more than 25 million lives. It’s a profound testament to what we can achieve when we act together when we take on tough challenges and an admonition for us to urgently accelerate our progress so that no one is left behind, because too many people are being left behind. The institutions we built together at the end of the second world war are an enduring bedrock of our progress, and the United States is committed to sustaining them. And this year, we’re proud to rejoin UNESCO. But we also recognize that to meet the new challenges of our decades-old institutions and approaches, they must be updated to keep peace with the world. We have to bring in more leadership and capability that exists everywhere, especially from regions that have not — have not always been fully included. We have to grapple with the challenges that are more connected and more complex. And we have to make sure we are delivering for people everywhere, not just somewhere. Everywhere. Simply put, the 21st century — 21st century results are badly needed — are needed to move us along. That starts with the United Nations — starts right here in this room. In my address to this body last year, I announced the United States would support expanding the Security Council, increasing the number of permanent and non-permanent members. The United States has undertaken serious consultation with many member states. And we’ll continue to do our part to push ref- — more reform efforts forward, look for points of common ground, and make progress in the year ahead. We need to be able to break the gridlock that too often stymies progress and blocks consensus on the Council. We need more voices and more perspectives at the table. The United Nations must continue to preserve peace, prevent conflict, and alleviate human suffering. And we embrace nations stepping up to lead in new ways and to seek new breakthroughs on hard issues. For example, on Haiti, the Caribbean Community is facilitating a dialogue among Haitian society. I think President Ruto of Kenya’s — I thank him for his willingness to serve as the lead nation of a U.N.-backed security support mission. I call on the Security Council to authorize this mission now. The people of Haiti cannot wait much longer. The United States is working across the board to make global institutions more responsive, more effective, and more inclusive. For example, we’ve taken significant steps to reform and scale up the World Bank, expanding its financing to low- and middle-income countries so it can help boost progress toward meeting the Sustainable Development Goals and better address interconnected challenges like climate change and fragility. Under the new president of the World Bank, change is already taking root. Last month, I asked the United States Congress for additional funds to expand World Bank financing by $25 billion. And at the G20, we rallied the major economies of the world to mobilize even more funding. Collectively, we can deliver a transformational boost to World Bank lending. And because the multilateral development banks are among the best tools we have for modern- — mobilizing transparent, high-quality investment in developing countries, reforming these institutions can be a game-changer. Similarly, we’ve proposed making sure developing countries have a strong voice and representation at the International Monetary Fund. We’re going to continue our efforts to reform the World Trade Organization and preserve competition, openness, transparency, and the rule of law while, at the same time, equipping it to better tackle modern-day imperatives, like driving the clean-energy transition, protecting workers, promoting inclusive and sustainable growth. And this month, we strengthened the G20 as a vital forum, welcoming the African Union as a permanent member. But upgrading and strengthening our institutions, that’s only half of the picture. We must also forge new partnerships, confront new challenges. Emerging technologies, such as artificial intelligence, hold both enormous potential and enormous peril. We need to be sure they are used as tools of opportunity, not as weapons of oppression. Together with leaders around the world, the United States is working to strengthen rules and policies so AI technologies are safe before they are released to the public; to make sure we govern this technology — not the other way around, having it govern us. And I’m committed to working through this institution and other international bodies and directly with leaders around the world, including our competitors, to ensure we harness the power of A- — artificial intelligence for good, while protecting our citizens from its most profound risk. It’s going to take all of us. I’ve been working at this for a while, as many of you have. It’s going to take all of us to get this right. In every region of the world, the United States is mobilizing strong alliances, versatile partnerships, common purpose, collective action to bring new approaches to our shared challenges. Here in the Western Hemisphere, we united 21 nations in support of the Los Angeles Declaration on Migration and Protection, launching a region-wide approach to a region-wide challenge to better uphold laws and protect — protect the rights of migrants. In the Indo-Pacific, we’ve elevated our Quad partnership with India, Japan, and Australia to deliver concrete progress for the people of the region on everything from vaccines to maritime security. Just yesterday, after two consultations and diplomacy, the United States brought together dozens of nations across four continents to establish a new Partnership for Atlantic Cooperation so that the coastal Atlantic countries can better cooperate on science, technology, environmental protection, and sustainable economic development. We’ve brought together nearly 100 countries in a global coalition to counter fentanyl and synthetic drugs to reduce the human cost of this affliction. And it is real. And as the nature of the terrorist threats evolve and the geography expands to new places, we’re working with our partners to bring capabilities to bear to disrupt plotting, degrade networks, and protect all of our people. Additionally, we convened the Summit for Democracy to strengthen democratic institutions, root out corruption, and reject political violence. And in this moment where democratically-elected governments have been toppled in quick succession in West and Central Africa, we’re reminded that this work is as urgent and important as ever. We stand with the Ac- — with the African Union and ECOWAS and other regional bodies to support constitutional rule. We will not retreat from the values that make us strong. We will defend democracy — our best tool to meet the challenges we face around the world. And we’re working to show how democracy can deliver in ways that matter to people’s lives. The Partnership for Global Infrastructure and Investment addresses the enormous need and opportunity for infrastructure investment in low- and middle-income countries, particularly in Africa, Latin America, and Southeast Asia. Through strategic, targeted public investments, we can unlock enormous amounts of private-sector financing. The G7 has pledged to work with parties to collectively mobilize $600 billion in infrastructure financing by 2027. The United States has already mobilized more than $30 billion to date. We’re creating a race to top with projects that have high standards for workers, the environment, and intellectual property, while avoiding the trap of unsustainable debt. We’re focusing on economic corridors that will max- — maximize the impact of our collective investment and deliver consequential results across multiple countries and multiple sectors. For example, the Lobito Corridor will extend across Africa from the western port of Angola to the DRC to Zambia, boosting regional connectivity and strengthening commerce and food security in Africa. Similarly, the groundbreaking effort we announced at the G20 connect India — to connect India to Europe through the UAE, Saudi Arabia, Jordan, and Israel will spur opportunities and investment across two continents. This is part of our effort to build a more sustainable, integrated Middle East. It demonstrates how Israel’s greater normalization and economic connection with its neighbors is delivering positive and practical impacts even as we continue to work tirelessly to support a just and lasting peace between Isr- — the Israelis and Palestinians — two states for two people. Now, let me be clear: None of these partnerships are about containing any country. They are about a positive vision for our shared future. When it comes to China, I want to be clear and consistent. We seek to responsibly manage the competition between our countries so it does not tip into conflict. I’ve said, “We are for de-risking, not decoupling with China.” We will push back on aggression and intimidation and defend the rules of the road, from freedom of navigation to overflight to a level economic playing field that have helped safeguard security and prosperity for decades. But we also stand ready to work together with China on issues where progress hinges on our common efforts. Nowhere is that more critical than accelerating the climate crisis — than the accelerating climate crisis. We see it everywhere: record-breaking heatwaves in the United States and China; wildfires ravaging North America and Southern Europe; a fifth year of drought in the Horn of Africa; tragic, tragic flooding in Libya — my heart goes out to the people of Libya — that has killed thousands — thousands of people. Together, these snapshots tell an urgent story of what awaits us if we fail to reduce our dependence on fossil fuels and begin to climate-proof the world. For one day — for one day , my administration, the United States, has treated this crisis as an existential threat from the moment we took office not only for us but for all of humanity. Last year, I signed into law in the United States the largest investment ever, anywhere in the history of the world to combat the climate crisis and help move the global economy toward a clean energy future. We’re also working with the Congress to quadruple our climate financing to help developing countries reach their climate goals and adapt to climate impacts. And this year, the world is on track to meet the climate fund — the cli- — the climate finance pledge that — made under the Paris Agreement: $100 billion to raise collectively. But we need more investment from the public and private sector alike, especially in places that have contributed so little to global emissions but face some of the worst effects of climate change, like the Pacific Islands. The United States is working directly with the Pacific Islands Forum to help these nations adapt and build resilience to climate impacts, even as we lead the effort to build innovative, new partnerships that attack the global challenges from all sides. From the First Movers Coalition, which is mobilizing billions of private-sector community — in the private-sector commitments to creating a market demand for green products in carbon-intense sectors like concrete, shipping, aviation, and trucking; to the Agriculture Innovation Mission for Climate, which is bringing farmers into the climate solution and making our food supply more resilient to climate shocks; and the Global Methane Pledge, now endorsed by more than 150 countries, which expands our focus beyond our carbon emission targets to reduce the potential greenhouse gases in our atmosphere by 30 percent in this decade: It’s all within our capacity. We need to bring the same commitment and urgency and ambition as we work together to meet the Sustainable Development Goals of 2030. These goals were adopted at the United Nations in 2015 as a roadmap for improving lives around the world. But the hard truth is: For decades of progress, the world has lost ground these past years in the wake of COVID-19, conflicts, and other crises. The United States is committing to doing its part to get us back on track. All told, in the first two years of my administration, the United States has invested more than $100 billion to drive development progress in bolstering food security, expanding access to education worldwide, strengthening healthcare systems, and fighting disease. And we’ve helped mobilize billions more in the private-sector investments. But to accelerate our forward progress on the Sustainable Development Goals, we all have to do more. We need to build new partnerships that change the way we tackle this challenge to unlock trillions of additional financing for development, drawing on all sources. We need to fill the gaps and address the failures of our existing system exposed by the pandemic. We need to ensure that women and girls benefit fully from our progress. We must also do more to grapple with the debt that holds back so many low- and middle-income countries. When nations are forced to service unsustainable debt payments over the needs of their own people, it makes it harder for them to invest in their own futures. And as we work together to recover from global shocks, the United States will also continue to be the largest single-community donor — country donor of humanitarian assistance at this moment of unparalleled need in the world. Folks, cooperation, partnership — these are the keys to progress on the challenges that affect us all and the baseline for responsible global leadership. We don’t — we don’t need to agree on everything to keep moving forward on issues like arms control — a cornerstone of international security. After more than 50 years of progress under the Non-Proliferation Treaty, Russia is shredding longstanding arms control agreements, including announcing the suspension of New START and withdrawing from the Conventional Forces in Europe Treaty. I view it as irresponsible, and it makes the entire world less safe. The United States is going to continue to pursue good-faith efforts to reduce the threat of weapons of mass destruction and lead by example, no matter what else is happening in the world. This year, we’ve safely destroyed at least — the last chemical munitions in the U.S. stockpile, fulfilling our commitment toward a world free of chemical weapons. And we condemn the DPRK’s continued violations of U.N. Security Council Resolutions, but we are committed to diplomacy that would bring about the denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula. And we’re working with our partners to address Iran’s destabilizing activities that threaten regional and global security and remain steadfast in our commitment that Iran must never acquire a nuclear weapon. Now, even as we evolve our institutions and drive creative new partnerships, let me be clear: Certain principles of our international system are sanc- — sacrosanct. Sovereignty, territorial integrity, human rights — these are the core tenets of the U.N. Charter, the pillars of peaceful relations among nations, without which we cannot achieve any of our goals. That has not changed, and that must not change. Yet, for the second year in a row, this gathering dedicated to peaceful resolution of conflicts is darkened by the shadow of war — an illegal war of conquest, brought without provocation by Russia against its neighbor, Ukraine. Like every nation in the world, the United States wants this war to end. No nation wants this war to end more than Ukraine. And we strongly support Ukraine in its efforts to bring about a diplomatic resolution that delivers just and lasting peace. But Russia alone — Russia alone bears responsibility for this war. Russia alone has the power to end this war immediately. And it is Russia alone that stands in the way of peace, because the — Russia’s price for peace is Ukraine’s capitulation, Ukraine’s territory, and Ukraine’s children. Russia believes that the world will grow weary and allow it to brutalize Ukraine without consequence. But I ask you this: If we abandon the core principles of the United States to appease an aggressor, can any member state in this body feel confident that they are protected? If we allow Ukraine to be carved up, is the independence of any nation secure? I’d respectfully suggest the answer is no. We have to stand up to this naked aggression today and deter other would-be aggressors tomorrow. That’s why the United States, together with our allies and partners around the world, will continue to stand with the brave people of Ukraine as they defend their sovereignty and territorial integrity and their freedom. It’s not only an investment in Ukraine’s future, but in the future of every country that seeks a world governed by basic rules that apply equally to all nations and uphold the rights of every nation, no matter how big or how small: sovereignty, territorial integrity. They are the fixed foundations of this noble body, and universal human rights is its North Star. We cannot sacrifice either. Seventy-five years ago, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights captured a remarkable act of collective hope — and I say that again — collective hope — drafted by a committee representing different regions, faiths, philosophies, and adopted by the entire General Assembly. The rights contained in the declaration are elemental and enduring. And while we still struggle to uphold equal and inalienable rights of all, they remain ever steady and ever true. We cannot turn away from abuses, whether in Xinjiang, Tehran, Darfur, or anywhere else. We have to continue working to ensure that women and girls enjoy equal rights and equal participation in their societies. That Indigenous groups; racial, ethnic, religious minorities; people with disabilities do not have their potential stifled by systemic discrimination. That the LGBTQI+ people are not prosecuted or targeted with violence because of who they are. These rights are part of our shared humanity. When they’re absent — when they are absent anywhere, their loss is felt everywhere. They are essential to the advancement of human progress that brings us together. My fellow leaders, let me close with this. At this inflection point in history, we’re going to be judged by whether or not we live up to the promises we have made to ourselves, to each other, to the most vulnerable, and to all those who will inherit the world we create, because that’s what we’re doing. Will we find within ourselves the courage to do what must be done to preserve the planet, to protect human dignity, to provide opportunity for people everywhere, and to defend the tenets of the United Nations? There can be only one answer to that question: We must, and we will. The road ahead is long and difficult, but if we preserve –persevere and prevail, if we keep the faith in ourselves and show what’s possible. Let’s do this work together. Let’s deliver progress for everyone. Let’s bend the arc of history for the good of the world because it’s within our power to do it. Thank you for listening. You’re kind. 10:44 A.M. EDT
Well, ladies and gentlemen, thank you all. My colleagues, this is — someone once said in a similar domestic action that was positive: This is a big deal. This is a real big deal. And I want to thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. One Earth, One Family, One Future: That’s the focus of this G20 Summit. And in many ways, it’s also the focus of this partnership that we’re going to — that we’re talking about today: building sustainable, resilient infrastructure; making quality infrastructure investments; and creating a better future — a future of a greater — that’s — represents greater opportunity, dignity, and prosperity for everyone. Last year, we came together as one to commit to this vision. And this afternoon, I want to highlight the key ways in which the United States and our partners are working to make this a reality. Economic corridors — you’re going to hear that phrase more than once, I expect, over the next decade. Economic corridors. As we work to address infrastructure gaps across low- and middle-income countries, we need to maximize the impacts of our investments. That’s why, a few months ago, I announced that the United States will work with our partners to invest in economic corridors. In practice, it means we’re focusing on regional infrastructure projects that deliver results across multiple countries and in multiple sectors. And, today, I’m proud to announce that we’ve finalized a historic agreement for a new India-Middle East-Europe Economic Corridor. As — as a key part of this corridor, we’re going to invest in ships and rail that extends the India — that extends from India all the way to Europe, connected by the UAE, Saudi Arabia, Jordan, and Israel; bridging ports across two continents; unlocking endless opportunities, including making it far easier to trade, export clean energy, expand access to reliable clean electricity, lay cables that will connect communities that secure a stable Internet, contributing a more stable, more prosperous, and integrated Middle East. And I want to thank the sponsors. And I particularly want to thank Prime Minister Modi and the Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia Mohammed bin Salam — Sa- — excuse me, Mohammed bin Salman and President von der Leyen and the European Commissions. And since his — he’s not speaking today, I wanted to — or maybe he is speaking today. I had a note he wasn’t speaking. Any rate, I’m going to — I’m going to stop there. In Saudi Ar- — the Sub-Saharan Africa — we’re working in a private-public partnership as well to invest in a Trans-African Corridor. That includes a new partner, the European Union. President von der Leyen, thank you for making this very possible. Together, as part of this corridor, we’re going to invest in a new rail line that will extend from the western port in Angola, to the — the DRC, to Zambia, and, ultimately, the Indian Ocean. It’s a project that’s about — far from just laying tracks. It’s about creating jobs, increasing trade, strengthening the supply chains, boosting connectivity, laying foundations that will strengthen commerce and food security for people across multiple countries. This is a game-changing regional investment. And the — both of these are huge — huge steps forward, but they’re far from the only ones. We’re continuing to make big investments in infrastructure around the world. That includes a solar energy site, an insulin manufacturing facility, an electricity project right here in India. We’re continuing to develop economic corridors across Africa, Asia, and the Americas. And together with our partners, we’re working to mobilize the trillions of investment needed to close the infrastructure gaps around the world, including the formation of a new investor forum that the United States will host in a couple of weeks. Let me close with this. The world stands at an inflection point in history. A point where decisions we make today are going to affect the course of our future — our future — all of our futures for decades to come. A point where our investments are more critical than ever. So, together, let’s continue to work as one to seize this moment in history and max- — maximize our collective investments, to find new partners, to unlock new capital. Because when we invest in low- and middle-income countries, all countries benefit. When we invest in emerging economies, all economies benefit. And when we invest in the future of people anywhere, people everywhere benefit. So, I want to thank you, again, for being here. I look forward to working with all of you. And I’m going to turn it back to the prime minister. Thank you. Could I — excuse — excuse me for interrupting, but as we say in my body I used to work, “a point of personal privilege.” I did not mention the Sheikh Mohammed of the UAE, but — because I knew he wasn’t speaking. But I do want to say thank you, thank you, thank you. I don’t think we’d be here without you. Thank you. 6:05 P.M. IST
Hello, Lithuania! As my mother would say, “God love ya.” No seats. Holy mackerel. It’s good to be back in Vilnius, a nation and a region that knows better than anyone the transformational power of freedom. You know, you showed the world that the strength of a people united cannot be denied. And together, with your brothers and sisters in Estonia and Latvia, you helped end the era of division through the power of connection. The Baltic Way, not the Berlin Wall, became the symbol for Europe’s future. And later, when Soviet tanks sought once more to deny your independence, the people of Vilnius said, “No.” No, no, no. And in January of 1991, tens of thousands of citizens, unarmed and unyielding, came for their own — of their own accord, standing as one to protect the TV Tower, to shield the Supreme Council, and to defend freedom. Fourteen heroes tragically lost their lives. Hundreds were wounded. But the whole world saw that decades of oppression had done nothing to dim the flame of liberty in this country. I mean it. It’s consequential. The light of Lithuania: You kept it strong. You kept it bright. And you kept the light shining here in Vilnius and in Washington, D.C., where the yellow, green, and red of your flag flew every day. This past year, we have celebrated 100 years of unbroken diplomatic relationship between the United States and the Baltic states. America — America never recognized the Soviet occupation of the Baltics. Never, never, never, Mr. President. And besides, you’ve got a great president. Stand up. No, stand up. As your president can yell you, the bonds between Lithuanian and the American people have never faltered. And just — just seven months after the bloody January crackdown, the first foreign vivistor — first foreign visitor to have their passports stamped here in Lithuania with visas of this — to this new, reborn state were a planeload of Lithuanian Americans from Chicago, Illinois. Oh. And their families are still proud of that. Los Angeles came after that. A lot came after. Look, many aboard that plane had fled Lithuania during the early years of Soviet oppression and marveled — marveled at their return to this independent state. One of them told reporters, quote, “This day is like a resurrection for us.” “This day, Father, is like a resurrection for us.” That’s what the quote was, for real. That’s the feeling. And it was — a resurrection that quickly became a revelation. And a nation which stands today as a stronghold of liberty and opportunity, a proud member of the European Union and of NATO. I had the great honor as a United States senator of championing Lithuania and other Baltic states to join NATO in 2004. Wasn’t I brilliant doing that? But all kidding aside, think about what it — how it’s changed things. Think about what’s happened. Now, over the last few days, as President of the United States, I had the honor of participating in a historic NATO Summit hosted by Lithuania, where we welcomed NATO’s newest Ally, Finland, and reached agreement to bring Sweden into the Alliance as soon as possible. And President Erdoğan kept his word. We have witnessed your historic journey. And I’m proud to call Lithuania a friend, partner, and Ally. Ally. Ally. Soon, NATO will be the 32nd freestanding — have free- — 33 — 32 freestanding members — — standing together to defend our people and our territory, beyond — beyond all the rest, bound by democratic values to make us strong and by our sacred oath that an attack against — it is a sacred oath — attack against one is an attack against all. Because each member of NATO knows that the strength of our people and the power of our unity cannot be denied. If I sound optimistic, it’s because I am. Today, our Alliance remains a bulwark of global security and stability as it’s been for more than seven decades. NATO is stronger, more energized, and, yes, more united than ever in its history. Indeed, more vital to our shared future. It didn’t happen by accident. It wasn’t inevitable. When Putin, and his craven lust for land and power, unleashed his brutal war on Ukraine, he was betting NATO would break apart. He was betting NATO would break. He thought our unity would shatter at the first testing. He thought democratic leaders would be weak. But he thought wrong. Faced with a threat — — faced with a threat to the peace and stability of the world, to democratic values we hold dear, to freedom itself, we did what we always do: The United States stepped up. NATO stepped up. Our partners in Europe, in the In- — and then the Indo-Pacific stepped up. All across the world they stepped up. And we’re ready — we were ready because we stood together. In the months leading up to the war, as Putin amassed his forces on the Ukrainian border and laid the groundwork for his brutal invasion, it wa- — I was in constant contact with my fellow leaders of the G7 and the European Union and NATO, constantly. We warned the world what Putin was planning. Even some in Ukraine didn’t believe we were — what we had — our intelligence community found. We made sure NATO was prepared to deter any aggression against any member state. We pursued intense diplomacy with Russia, seeking to avert this terrible war. And when Russian bombs began to fall, we did not hesitate to act. We rallied the world to support the brave people of Ukraine as they defend their liberty and their sovereignty with incredible dignity. I mean that from the bottom of my heart. Think about it. Think about what they’re doing. After nearly a year and a half of Russia’s forces committing terrible atrocities, including crimes against humanity, the people of Ukraine remain unbroken. Unbroken. Ukraine remains independent. It remains free. And the United States has built a coalition of more than 50 nations to make sure Ukraine defends itself both now and is able to do it in the future as well. Since this war began, I’ve stood with President Zelenskyy — as I just spent about an hour with him — both in Washington, in Kyiv, in Hi- — in Hiroshima, and now in Vilnius, to declare to the world what I say again: We will not waver. We will not waver. I mean that. Our commitment to Ukraine will not weaken. We will stand for liberty and freedom today, tomorrow, and for as long as it takes. We all want this war to end on just terms — terms that uphold the basic principles of the United Nations Charter that we all signed up to: sovereignty, territorial integrity. These are two pillars of peaceful relations among nations. One country cannot be allowed to seize its neighbor’s territory by force. Russia could end this war tomorrow by withdrawing its forces from Ukraine, recognize these international borders, and ceasing its attacks on its — inhumane attacks on Russia — I mean, by Russia on Ukraine, against its children — women and children; its military. Unfortunately, Russia has shown thus far no interest in a diplomatic outcome. Putin still wrongly believes that he can outlast Ukraine. He can’t believe it’s their land, their country, and their future. And even after all this time, Putin still doubts our staying power. He’s still making a bad bet that the conviction and the unity among the United States and our Allies and partners will break down. He still doesn’t understand that our commitment to our values, our freedom is something he can never, never, ever, ever walk away from. It’s who we are. I mean it — it’s who we are. It’s who we are. Throughout this horrific war, the people of Lithuania, together with our Baltic brethren, have been among the fiercest champ- — most fiercest champions of Ukraine’s right to a future of its own choosing: one that is free. Because you lived so long with freedom denied, many of you who are older know better than anyone how precious the right to determine your own future is, precious to people everywhere — everywhere — not just in Ukraine, but Belarus, Moldova, Georgia — in all the places around the world where people continue to fight to make their voices heard. So, my message — my message to all of you tonight is: Keep it up. Keep it going. Keep reminding the world of hope that Lithuania embodies. And that’s what you embody: hope in this country. No, I really mean it. I’m not joking. I mean this sincerely. We must never forget how much this matters and never, never give up on a better tomorrow. The defense of freedom is not the work of a day or a year. It’s the calling of our lifetime, of all time. We are steeled for the struggle ahead. Our unity will not falter. I promise you. Folks, as I look around the world today, at a moment of war and peril, a moment of competition and uncertainty, I also see a moment of unprecedented opportunity — unprecedented opportunity — opportunity to make real strides toward a world of greater peace and greater prosperity, liberty and dignity, equal justice under the law, human rights and fundamental freedoms which are the blessing and birthright of all of humanity. That — that is the world the United States is working toward. And it’s one we’ll only reach if we do it together — and I mean together. We need to take the same spirit of unity, common purpose, determination that we have demonstrated in our response to Russian aggression in Ukraine and bring more partners along as we continue working to build a world we want to live in and a world we want for our children. My friends, at the most fundamental level, we face a choice — it’s not a hyperbole — we face a choice: a choice between a world defined by coercion and exploitation, where might makes right, or a world where we recognize that our own success is bound to the success of others. When others do better, we do better as well — where we understand that the challenges we face today, from the existential threat of climate change to building a global economy where no one gets left behind, are too great for any one nation to solve on their own, and that to achieve our goals and meet the challenges of this age, we have to work together. And I mean this sincerely: The world is changing. We have a chance to change the dynamic. That’s why I’ve been so focused as president on rebuilding and revitalizing the alliances that are the cornerstone of American leadership in the world. These past years, we have brought the Transatlantic Partnership to new heights, reaffirming the importance of the relationship between Europe and the United States as an anchor to global stability. The idea that the United States could prosper without a secure Europe is not reasonable. We’ve also elevated — — that’s — it really isn’t. Not a joke. I sometimes — well — we also elevated and deepened America’s alliance in the Indo-Pacific with Japan, the Republic of Korea, Australia, and the Philippines, which provide critical security and deterrence in that vital region of the world. Through our Quad partnership — it’s a fancy way of saying our partnership with Australia, India, Japan, and the United States — we’re bringing major democracies of the region together to cooperate, keeping the Indo-Pacific free and open, prosperous, and secure. We’ve demonstrated during this NATO Summit, with In- — with Indo-Pacific partners joining us for the second year in a row, we’re working to deepen connections between the Atlantic and Pacific democracies so they can better work together toward the shared values we all seek: strong alliances, versatile partnerships, common purpose, collective action to meet our shared challenges. The world has shrunk. That’s how we build a future to see. But we share and know we share challenges and work together. We have to step up together, building the broadest and deepest coalition to strengthen and defend the basic rules of the road, to preserve all the extraordinary benefits that stem from the international system grounded in the rule of law. We have to come together to protect the rights and freedoms that underwrite the flow of ideas and commerce and which have enabled decades of global growth. Yes, territorial integrity and sovereignty, but also principles like freedom of navigation and overflight, keeping our shared seas and skies open so that every nation has equal access to our global common space. And as we continue to explore this age of new possibilities, an age enabled by rapid advances in innovation, we have to stand together to ensure that the common spaces of our future reflect our highest ras- — aspirations for ourselves and for others — as my dad would say, that everybody has — is treated with some dignity — so that artificial intelligence, engineering, biology, and other engineering techno- — emerging technologies are not made into weapons of oppression but rather are used as tools of opportunity. We’re working with our allies and partners to build a supply chains that are more resilient, more secure, so we never again face a situation like we had during the pandemic where we couldn’t get critical goods we needed for our daily lives. You know, we all must summon the common will to — to actually address the existential threat of accelerating climate change. It’s real. It’s serious. We don’t have a lot of time. It is the — the single greatest threat to humanity. And it’s only by working together that we’ll prevent the worst consequences of climate change from ravaging our future and that of our children and grandchildren. We also have to recognize our shared responsibility to help unlock the enormous potential that exists in low- and middle-income companies around the world — not out of charity, because it’s in our own self-interest. We all benefit when more partners stand together, working toward shared goals. We all benefit when people are healthier and more prosperous. And that’s not, again, hyperbole. It’s true. We all benefit when more entrepreneurs and innovators are able to pursue their dreams for a better tomorrow. You know, so we need to update our toolset to better address the needs of today in this interconnected world. A world where climate disasters, pandemics, conflicts spill over borders and make it harder to address the challenges of poverty and instability that hold so many people back. That’s why the United States is leading an effort to transform the multilateral development banks, like the World Bank, to help them better address the global challenges while enhancing their core mission of reducing poverty and boost shared prosperity. We’re all working together with our partners in the G7 to address the enormous needs for high-standard infrastructure around the world, especially in low- and middle-income countries in Africa, Latin America, and Southeast Asia. It’s a statement about the world we want to build together. Ladies and gentlemen, we stand at an inflection point, an inflection point in history, where the choices we make now are going to shape the direction of our world for decades to come. The world has changed. Will we turn back naked, unchecked aggression today to deter other world — would-be aggressors tomorrow? Will we staunch the climate crisis before it’s too late? Will we harness the new technologies to advance freedom or will we diminish it? Will we advance opportunity in more places or allow instability and inequality to persist? How we answer these essential questions is literally going to determine the kind of future our children and grandchildren have. And, again, that’s not an exaggeration; that’s a fact. It’s going to take all of us. All of us. I believe that with ambition, with confidence in ourselves and one another, with nations working together for common cause, we can answer these questions. We can ensure the vision we share and the freedoms we cherish are not just empty words in a troubled time, but a roadmap — and I mean this literally — a roadmap, a plan of urgent action toward a future we can reach, and we’ll reach if we work together. Folks, the road that lies before us is hard. It will challenge us, summon the best of ourselves to hold faith in one another and never give up, never lose hope. Never. Every day, we have to make the choice. Every day, we must summon the strength to stand for what is right, to stand for what is true, to stand for freedom, to stand together. And that, my friends, is the lesson we learn from history and the history of Lithuania’s story. You know, it’s the lesson we see demonstrated each day, and it will determine — it will determine what Ukraine looks like. And it is now — it’s how we’re going to work — how we rewrite the future of peace and hope, justice and light, liberty, possibilities for everyone — everyone everywhere. Folks, some have heard me say to my country many times: Never ever in my entire career I’ve been more optimistic about the prospects of the future. Never. Never. So let me just say thank you for taking the time to be here to listen. God bless you all, and may God protect the freedoms of the — the protectors of freedom in Ukraine, here, in every nation in the world, everywhere. God protect our troops. Thank you, thank you, thank you. 8:12 P.M. EEST
Well, thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. Nearly one year ago, we made a commitment to commit not only to build a better infrastructure but to build a better future, one rooted in opportunity, security, and prosperity for all. And thanks to all the public and private partners around this table and many more around the world, we’ve already begun to deliver. Together, we’ve initiated quality and sustainable infrastructure projects across Africa, Asia, and the Americas. And we’re strengthening our shared climate security, health security, and food security, and economic security. All four are critical. We started to engage more private investors to better de-risk and leverage additional capital. And I see at least two from the United States here that are de-risking a lot. And I’m proud to announce that the United States has already mobilized more than $30 billion in investments to date. And we’re just getting started. Together, we have a lot of work to do to close the infrastructure gap and for — in low- and middle-income countries. And as we begin the next year, our partnership — we need to find new ways — new ways to maximize investments — our investments. That’s why, moving forward, the United States will enhance our focus on investing in key economic corridors. In practice, that means making game-changing investments in regions that could lead to positive impacts across multiple sectors in multiple countries. We’ve already started working with our partners to make this happen. For example, in Sub-Saharan Africa, the U.S. Development Finance Corporation is looking to invest in this first railway project on the continent. The rail line would extend from the western shores of Angola to the border of the DRC and Zambia, with the goal of ultimately reaching the Indian Ocean, connecting the continent east to west for the first time. This project would not only quickly promote trade and create jobs. Over time, in my view, it will strengthen supply chains, incentive — and incentivize investments in agriculture, and promote food security. And it’s going to enable, in my view, us to better access clean energy and digital connectivity across the entire region, creating more security, more prosperity, more opportunities for generations to come. That’s what our focus on the key economic corridors is all about: investing in near-term solutions that pay long-term dividends. It’s not only in Africa. We’re starting similar work in Costa Rica, Ecuador, Indonesia, and other places I won’t bore you with now. And let me close with this. During the G7 meeting, we’re addressing a range of issues: climate change, food security, gender inequality, economic resilience, digital connectivity, and global security. We’re tracking these challenges together, and I think we’re beginning to make some important progress. But if we don’t move to do more to strengthen infrastructure in low- and middle-income countries, if we don’t do more to help nations deliver opportunities and prosperity for their people, our impact is going to be limited. That’s how the crit- — how critical this partnership is. That’s how important our investments are. So, today, as we began the PGII’s second year, let’s all find ways to maximize our investment — maximize it — because it will do a lot not only for that particular undertaking but it has an impact across the entire regions, in my view, and — to unlock even more public and private capital. And together, let’s recommit to showing that democracies can deliver. Let me say it again: Democracies can deliver. We have to deliver to people around the world. I want to thank you all for your partnership and leadership on this vital issue. And now I’m going to turn it back to the Prime Minister. Thank you. 5:46 P.M. JST
Hello, everyone. Let me start by apologizing for the slight cold I have. That’s the only thing that’s happening to me these days. Let me start by thanking everyone for participating in the second Summit of Democracies — for Democracy, I should say. But more importantly, thank you for the work you’ve put in over the last 15 months to deliver on commitments you made to each other and to our peoples for the first Summit of — from the first Summit of Democracy. Look, you know, that’s the power of these summits. Not just to speak high-minded words and shine a spotlight on those critical issues, but to galvanize action that translate to concrete progress for people around the world. That’s how we make democracy deliver for everyone. And here’s what I hope everyone gathered here, and everyone watching around the world, takes away from this summit: It’s working. It’s working. You know, when we gathered here in December of 2021, the sentiment in too many places around the world was that democracy’s best days were behind us. Democracy had declined by some measures for 15 consecutive years. But this year, we can say there’s a different story to tell. Thanks to the commitment — thanks to the commitment of leaders of global — gathered today and the persistence of people in every region of the world demanding their rights be respected and their voices being heard, we’re seeing real indicatiors — real indications that we’re at a — we’re turning the tide here. As I often say, we’re at an inflection point in history here, where the decisions we make today are going to affect the course of our world for the next several decades, for certain. We’re going forward from this summit. Our job is to keep building on our progress so we don’t start heading in the wrong direction again, to keep the momentum going. This is a turning point for our world toward greater freedom, greater dignity, and greater democracy. Here in the United States, we’ve demonstrated that our democracy can still do big things and deliver important progress for working Americans. We’re bringing down the cost of essentials like prescription drugs and health insurance premiums. We’re giving families a little bit more — as my dad used to say, a little bit more breathing room. We’re rebuilding America’s infrastructure, driving innovation and tackling the climate crisis while — all while creating good union jobs and investing in communities that too often have been left behind in the past. We’re also demonstrating the resilience of American democracy. During our free, fair, and secure elections last fall, America’s first national election since the January 6th attack on our Capitol — Capitol, voters resoundingly and roundly rejected the voices of extremism attacking and undermining our democracy. The right to vote, to have your vote counted, is the threshold of democracy and liberty everywhere in the world. And with it, anything is possible. Without it, in my view, nothing is possible. That’s why, earlier this year I was proud to sign the bipartisan Electoral Count Reform Act to ensure American elections continue to reflect the will of the American people and protect the peaceful transfer of power. You know, we’re going to keep working to further strengthen protections by working to pass what we call the John Lewis Voting Rights Advancement Act and the Freedom to Vote Act. They’re just to further strength our democracy. And it’s not just the United States that’s — that’s delivering on our commitment and demonstrating power — the power of democracy. Angola — Angola has taken steps to build an independent judiciary, creating three new region- — three new regional courts of appeal, which are going to help process cases more quickly. The — the Dominican Republic has modernized its anti-corruption law to create more than 100 anti-corruption offices at local levels. Croatia is implementing a multi-year anti-corruption plan to increase government transparency and better oversee public procurement. And there are many more examples I could give, but I’m not going to take the time, in many other countries for every person, from countries taking the first steps toward reform to well-established democracies of people making real changes to protect and strengthen their democracy. Look, all we know, it’s not easy. It’s not — this has never been easy. Democracy is hard work. The work of democracy is never finished. It’s never laid down and that’s it, all you have to do. It must be protected constantly. We have to continually renew our commitment, continually strengthen our institutions, root out corruption where we find it, seek to build consensus, and reject political violence, give hate and extremism no safe harbor. We have to continue our efforts to advance the rights and dignity — and I emphasize the word “dignity” — of all people, including women and girls — you know, because wherever women and girls are under threat, democracy, peace, and stability are at risk as well. And we can’t achieve our goals if we’re leaving more than half the world’s population out of the solution. We just heard from two incredible women who made an incredible case about — regarding Belarus. They are — they’re not only women, they’re leaders. They deserve and all women deserve to be represented. Moreover, when we advance eq- — equality and racial justice, and invest in young people, protect the LGBTQ+ individuals, our societies are not only fairer but they’re stronger and more successful. Democracy demands full and equal participation of all — all of our citizens. That’s how we unleash the human potential and put ourselves in the strongest possible position to take on the shared challenges — and I emphasize “shared” challenges. And when democracies stand together, we reinforce and amplify each other’s efforts to great effect. And we’ve seen it over and over again — democracies stepping up to lead and to solve problems together, not just for our own people but for the world. From our work to coordinate a global response to the COVID-19 pandemic to strengthen global health security so we have be- — we’re better prepared to prevent and respond to future global health threats; to our commitment to raise our ambitions on climate goals that we have to preserve our planet — literally preserve our planet for future generations; to making sure parents can feed their children, strengthening food security by building more sustainable and resilient food systems around the globe; and to the unprecedented unity — the unprecedented unity we’ve seen from democracies condemning Russia’s brutal war of aggression against Ukraine and standing in solidarity with the brave Ukrainian people as they defend their democracy. So, today, the United States is building on our enduring commitment to boost democracy globally. At the first Summit of Democracy, I launched the Presidential Initiative for Democratic Renewal, committed more than $400 million to shore up transparent and accountable governance, support for media freedom, to fight for international — fighting international corruption, stand with democracy and democratic reformers, promote technology that advances democracy, defend elections. Now, working in close cooperation with the United States Congress, we plan to add another $690 million for new funding for the Presidential Initiative over the next two years. And over the course of three years, my administration intends to work with Congress to commit $9.5 billion across all our efforts to advance democracy around the world. We’re all safer when that occurs. We’re creating a new Bureau for — of Democracy, Human Rights, and Governance at USAID to implement many of these funding commitments to enhance our support for democratic initiatives globally. You know, one key focus of our democ- — of our democracy work will be on making sure that technologies can continue to develop — continue to develop that are used to advance democratic governance, not used to undermine it. As part of this, earlier this week I signed an executive order here in the United States to restrict the U.S. government’s use of commercial spyware that has been abused to target dissidents, activists, and journalists around the world, including in the United States. U.S. taxpayer dollars should not — should not support companies that are willing to sell their products to abate human rights and violations — excuse me — abet human rights violations. And I want to thank those countries who are joining us this week in committing to regulate the use of commercial spyware. This effort is one of many — many my administration is leading in the digital space for strengthening tools for Internet freedom; to better protecting activists and journalists from cyber threats, harassment, abuse; and — and shaping emergency — emerging technologies like artificial intelligence so that they deliver and develop things that are in line with our values — our values. And as you can probably tell, strengthening democracy is a subject about which I am somewhat passionate. I believe this is a defining challenge of our age. And today we can say with pride that the democracies of the world are getting stronger, not weaker. Autocracies of the world are getting weaker, not stronger. That’s a direct result of all of us — all of us coming together with confidence in ourselves and conviction in our cause: governments from around the globe, representatives of civil society and business, democratic activists and trade unionist — people who refuse to stand silent at attempts to erode their rights. All — all of us are making the choice to be leaders of our world and what our world needs to make democracies stronger, to keep the torch of liberty burning for ourselves and generations to come. We have to keep going, and we will. Thanks to the Republic of Korea for stepping forward to host the next Summit for Democracies. And we’ll sustain this forum as a driver of progress — for progress and an anchor for our commitment to one another. So thank you all again for participating. I look forward to all of you — each one of you, to hearing from you. And I know — I’m now going to turn — turn this over to the President of Slovakia. Madam President, it’s all yours. Well, thank you, Mr. President, for your last comments. I agree with you completely. Let me just close by thanking all of you again for making a priority, for your country and for the world, more democracy. You know, we’re covering a lot of ground in these sessions today on all ways democracy can — is at — at the heart of all that we hope to achieve and for our people: spurring economic growth; shared prosperity; unfolding justice and upholding it as well; strengthening our institutions; taking global challenges — tackling them head on; advancing inclusion and equity for all our people. The great strength of democracy is that it gives us all the tools we need for self-government and self-improvement. And I’m proud to stand with all of you to defend those fundamental values we all share: justice, the rule of law, free speech, assembly, freedom of the press, freedom of religion, and our core belief in the interest of human rights for every single individual in the world. You know, we’ve accomplished a great deal together, but we all know how much work lies ahead. We’ve proven we’re up to the challenge. But with the Republic of Korea hosting the next Summit of Democracy, we’re going to keep going, together, all of us. So, I thank you all very much. I won’t take any more of your time. But I’ve been impressed by what you’ve had to say. Thank you all very, very much. 12:37 P.M. EDT
Well, thank you all very much. And I’m delighted to be here. As some of you may remember, years ago, when we were expanding NATO, I was the one in the United States Senate who was pushing the hardest to expand NATO for membership of many of you sitting around this table. And the irony is that one of the last conversations I had with the — our friend in Russia was I said, “You keep asking for the Finlandization of NATO. You’re going to get the NATOization of Finland.” Well, it happened. Not only are we strong as we were, we’re stronger. And I say to my fellow presidents that I’m honored to be with you here — and so many strong NATO Allies — and the Secretary General, who I think has done an incredible job — an incredible job — for a long time, and I rely on his judgment a great deal. You know, the B9 was founded in 2015, after Russia attempted annexation of Crimea. And today, as we approach the one-year anniversary of Russia’s further invasion, it’s even more important that we continue to stand together. And I think this is proof of this — how strongly we feel. That’s why I wanted to meet all of you in person here today. As NATO’s eastern flank, you’re the frontlines of our collective defense. And you know better than anyone what’s at stake in this conflict not just for Ukraine, but for the freedom of democracies throughout Europe and around the world. You know, when — that’s what President Zelenskyy and I spoke about when I was in Kyiv two days ago. And the leaders around this table have repeatedly stepped up to reaffirm our shared commitment to all these values. We provided critical security assistance to Ukraine and critical support to literally millions of refugees. We’ve helped ensure Ukrainians can access basic services. And together, we’ll continue our enduring support for Ukraine as they defend their freedom. Over the past year, with your countries — with countries around this table providing collective leadership, we’ve also strengthened NATO. The commitment of the United States to NATO — and I’ve said it to you many times; I’ll say it again — is absolutely clear. Article Five is a sacred commitment the United States has made. We will defend literally every inch of NATO — every inch of NATO. And it’s — this is an important moment. And I look forward to the discussion and the next steps we can take together and — to keep our alliance strong and to further deter aggression. Because what literally is at stake is not just Ukraine, it’s freedom. The idea that over 100,000 forces would invade another country — after War — since World War Two, nothing like that has happened. Things have changed radically. And we have to — we have to make sure we change them back. So, thank you all very much for allowing me to be with you. And I look forward to our private discussions. 2:59 P.M. CET
Hello, Poland! One of our great allies. President Duda, Prime Minister — Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Mayor, and to all the former ministers and presidents, as well as mayors and Polish political leaders from all across the country: Thank you for welcoming me back to Poland. You know, it was nearly one year ago — — nearly one year ago I spoke at the Royal Castle here in Warsaw, just weeks after Vladimir Putin had unleashed his murderous assault on Ukraine. The largest land war in Europe since World War Two had begun. And the principles that had been the cornerstone of peace, prosperity, and stability on this planet for more than 75 years were at risk of being shattered. One year ago, the world was bracing for the fall of Kyiv. Well, I have just come from a visit to Kyiv, and I can report: Kyiv stands strong! Kyiv stands proud. It stands tall. And most important, it stands free. When Russia invaded, it wasn’t just Ukraine being tested. The whole world faced a test for the ages. Europe was being tested. America was being tested. NATO was being tested. All democracies were being tested. And the questions we faced were as simple as they were profound. Would we respond or would we look the other way? Would we be strong or would we be weak? Would be — we would — would we be — all of our allies — would be united or divided? One year later, we know the answer. We did respond. We would be strong. We would be united. And the world would not look the other way. We also faced fundamental questions about the commitment to the most basic of principles. Would we stand up for the sovereignty of nations? Would we stand up for the right of people to live free from naked aggression? Would we stand up for democracy? One year later, we know the answers. Yes, we would stand up for sovereignty. And we did. Yes, we would stand up for the right of people to live free from aggression. And we did. And we would stand up for democracy. And we did. And yesterday, I had the honor to stand with President Zelenskyy in Kyiv to declare that we will keep standing up for these same things no matter what. When President Putin ordered his tanks to roll into Ukraine, he thought we would roll over. He was wrong. The Urai- — the Ukrainian people are too brave. America, Europe, a coalition of nations from the Atlantic to the Pacific — we were too unified. Democracy was too strong. Instead of an easy victory he perceived and predicted, Putin left with burnt-out tanks and Russia’s forces in delay — in disarray. He thought he’d get the Findalization of NATO. Instead, he got the NATOization of Finland — and Sweden. He thought NATO would fracture and divide. Instead, NATO is more united and more unified than ever — than ever before. He thought he could weaponize energy to crack your resolve — Europe’s resolve. Instead, we’re working together to end Europe’s dependence on Russil fo- — Russian fossil fuels. He thought autocrats like himself were tough and leaders of democracies were soft. And then, he met the iron will of America and the nations everywhere that refused to accept a world governed by fear and force. He found himself at war with a nation led by a man whose courage would be forged in fire and steel: President Zelenskyy. President Putin — President Putin is confronted with something today that he didn’t think was possible a year ago. The democracies of the world have grown stronger, not weaker. But the autocrats of the world have grown weaker, not stronger. Because in the mo- — moments of great upheaval and uncertainty, that knowing what you stand for is most important, and knowing who stands with you makes all the difference. The people of Poland know that. You know that. In fact, you know — you know it better than anyone here in Poland. Because that’s what solidarity means. Through partition and oppression, when the beautiful city was destroyed after the Warsaw Uprising, during decades under the iron fist of communist rule, Poland endured because you stood together. That’s how the brave leaders of the opposition and the people of Belarus continue to fight for their democracy. That’s how the resolve of Moldovan people — — resolve of the people of Moldova to live in freedom gained them independence and put them on the path to EU membership. President Sandu is here today. I’m not sure where she is. But I’m proud to stand with you and the freedom-loving people of Moldova. Give her a round of applause. One year in- — one year into this war, Putin no longer doubts the strength of our coalition. But he still doubts our conviction. He doubts our staying power. He doubts our continued support for Ukraine. He doubts whether NATO can remain unified. But there should be no doubt: Our support for Ukraine will not waver, NATO will not be divided, and we will not tire. President Putin’s craven lust for land and power will fail. And the Ukrainian people’s love for their country will prevail. Democracies of the world will stand guard over freedom today, tomorrow, and forever. For that’s what — that’s what’s at stake here: freedom. That’s the message I carried to Kyiv yesterday, directly to the people of Ukraine. When President Zelenskyy said — he came to the United States in December — quote — he said this struggle will define the world and what our children and grandchildren — how they live, and then their children and grandchildren. He wasn’t only speaking about the children and grandchildren of Ukraine. He was speaking about all of our children and grandchildren. Yours and mine. We’re seeing again today what the people of Poland and the people all across Europe saw for decades: Appetites of the autocrat cannot be appeased. They must be opposed. Autocrats only understand one word: “No.” “No.” “No.” “No, you will not take my country.” “No, you will not take my freedom.” “No, you will not take my future.” And I’ll repeat tonight what I said last year in this same place: A dictator bent on rebuilding an empire will never be able to ease the people’s love of liberty. Brutality will never grind down the will of the free. And Ukraine — Ukraine will never be a victory for Russia. Never. For free people refuse to live in a world of hopelessness and darkness. You know, this has been an extraordinary year in every sense. Extraordinary brutality from Russian forces and mercenaries. They have committed depravities, crimes against humanity, without shame or compunction. They’ve targeted civilians with death and destruction. Used rape as a weapon of war. Stolen Ukrainian children in an attempt to — in an attempt to steal Ukraine’s future. Bombed train stations, maternity hospitals, schools, and orphanages. No one — no one can turn away their eyes from the atrocities Russia is committing against the Ukrainian people. It’s abhorrent. It’s abhorrent. But extraordinarily, as well, has been the response of the Ukrainian people and the world. One year after the bombs began to fall and Russian tanks rolled into Ukraine, Ukraine is still independent and free. From Kherson to Kharkiv, Ukrainian fighters have reclaimed their land. In more than 50 percent of the territory Russia held last year, the blue and the yellow flag of Ukraine proudly waves once again. President Zelenskyy still leads a democratically elected government that represents the will of the Ukrainian people. And the world has already voted multiple times, including in the United Nations General Assembly, to condemn Russia’s aggression and support a just peace. Each time in the U.N., that vote has been overwhelming. In October, 143 nations in the United Nations condemned Russia’s illegal annexation. Only four — four in the entire U.N. — voted with Russia. Four. So, tonight, I speak once more to the people of Russia. The United States and the nations of Europe do not seek to control or destroy Russia. The West was not plotting to attack Russia, as Putin said today. And millions of Russian citizens who only want to live in peace with their neighbors are not the enemy. This war was never a necessity; it’s a tragedy. President Putin chose this war. Every day the war continues is his choice. He could end the war with a word. It’s simple. If Russia stopped invading Ukraine, it would end the war. If Ukraine stopped defending itself against Russia, it would be the end of Ukraine. That’s why, together, we’re making sure Ukraine can defend itself. The United States has assembled a wor- — worldwide coalition of more than 50 nations to get critical weapons and supplies to the brave Ukrainian fighters on the frontlines. Air defense systems, artillery, ammunition, tanks, and armored vehicles. The European Union and its member states have stepped up with unprecedented commitment to Ukraine, not just in security assistance, but economic, and humanitarian, refugee assistance, and so much more. To all of you here tonight: Take a moment. And I’m serious when I say this: Turn on and look — turn around and look at one another. Look at what you’ve done so far. Poland is hosting more than 1.5 million refugees from this war. God bless you. Poland’s generosity, your willingness to open your hearts and your homes, is extraordinary. And the American people are united in our resolve as well. All across my country, in big cities and small towns, Ukrainian flags fly from American homes. Over the past year, Democrats and Republicans in our United States Congress have come together to stand for freedom. That’s who Americans are, and that’s what Americans do. The world is also coming together to address the global fallout from President Putin’s war. Putin tried to starve the world, blocking the ports in the Black Sea to stop Ukraine from exporting its grain, exacerbating the global food crisis that hit developing nations in Africa especially hard. Instead, the United States and the G7 and partners around the world answered the call with historic commitments to address the crisis and to bolster global food supplies. And this week, my wife, Jill Biden, is traveling to Africa to help bring attention to this critical issue. Our commitment is to the people of Ukraine and the future of Ukraine — a Ukraine that’s free, sovereign, and democratic. That was the dream of those who declared Ukraine’s independence more than 30 years ago — who led the Orange Revolution and the Revolution of Dignity; who braved ice and fire on the Maidan and the Heavenly Hundred who died there; and those who continue still to root out Kremlin’s efforts to corrupt, coerce, and control. It’s a dream for those Ukrainian patriots who have fought for years against Russia’s aggressions in the Donbas and the heroes who have given everything, given their lives, in the service of their beloved Ukraine. I was honored to visit their memorial in Kyiv yesterday to pay tribute to the sacrifice of those who lost their lives, standing alongside President Zelenskyy. The United States and our partners stand with Ukraine’s teachers, its hospital staff, its emergency responders, the workers in cities across Ukraine who are fighting to keep the power on in the face of Russia’s cruel bombardment. We stand with the millions of refugees of this war who have found a welcome in Europe and the United States, particularly here in Poland. Ordinary people all across Europe did whatever they could to help and continue to do so. Polish businesses, civil society, cultural leaders — including the First Lady of Poland, who is here tonight — have led with the heart and determination, showcasing all that’s good about the human spirit. Madam First Lady, we love you. Thank you all. I’ll never forget, last year, visiting with refugees from Ukraine who had just arrived in Warsaw, seeing their faces exhausted and afraid — holding their children so close, worrying they might never see their fathers, their husbands, their brothers or sisters again. In that darkest moment of their lives, you, the people of Poland, offered them safety and light. You embraced them. You literally embraced them. I watched. I watched the looks on their faces. Meanwhile, together we have made sure that Russia is paying the price for its abuses. We continue to maintain the largest sanctions regime ever imposed on any country in history. And we’re going to announce more sanctions this week together with our partners. We’ll hold accountable those who are responsible for this war. And we will seek justice for the war crimes and crimes against humanity continuing to be committed by the Russians. You know, there is much for us to be proud of over the — all that we have achieved together this past year. But we have to be honest and cleared-eyed as we look at the year ahead. The defense of freedom is not the work of a day or of a year. It’s always difficult. It’s always important. As Ukraine continues to defend itself against the Russian onslaught and launch counter-offensives of its own, there will continue to be hard and very bitter days, victories and tragedies. But Ukraine is steeled for the fight ahead. And the United States, together with our Allies and partners, are going to continue to have Ukraine’s back as it defends itself. Next year, I will host every member of NATO for our 2024 summit in the United States. Together, we’ll celebrate the 75th anniversary of the strongest defensive alliance in the history of the world — NATO. And — — and let there be no doubt, the commitment of the United States to our NATO Alliance and Article 5 is rock solid. And every member of NATO knows it. And Russia knows it as well. An attack against one is an attack against all. It’s a sacred oath. A sacred oath to defend every inch of NATO territory. Over the past year, the United States has come together with our Allies and partners in an extraordinary coalition to stand against Russian aggression. But the work in front of us is not just what we’re against, it’s about what we’re for. What kind of world do we want to build? We need to take the strength and capacity of this coalition and apply it to lifting up — lifting up the lives of people everywhere, improving health, growing prosperity, preserving the planet, building peace and security, treating everyone with dignity and respect. That’s our responsibility. The democracies of the world have to deliver it for our people. As we gather tonight, the world, in my view, is at an — at an inflection point. The decisions we make over the next five years or so are going to determine and shape our lives for decades to come. That’s true for Americans. It’s true for the people of the world. And while decisions are ours to make now, the principles and the stakes are eternal. A choice between chaos and stability. Between building and destroying. Between hope and fear. Between democracy that lifts up the human spirit and the brutal hand of the dictator who crushes it. Between nothing less than limitation and possibilities, the kind of possibilities that come when people who live not in captivity but in freedom. Freedom. Freedom. There is no sweeter word than freedom. There is no nobler goal than freedom. There is no higher aspiration than freedom. Americans know that, and you know it. And all that we do now must be done so our children and grandchildren will know it as well. Freedom. The enemy of the tyrant and the hope of the brave and the truth of the ages. Freedom. Stand with us. We will stand with you. Let us move forward with faith and conviction and with an abiding commitment to be allies not of darkness, but of light. Not of oppression, but of liberation. Not of captivity, but, yes, of freedom. May God bless you all. May God protect our troops. And may God bless the heroes of Ukraine and all those who defend freedom around the world. Thank you, Poland. Thank you, thank you, thank you for what you’re doing. God bless you all. 6:00 P.M. CET
Good almost morning. It’s exactly noon. Thank you for being here. Yesterday marked 11 months since Russia’s brutal, full-scale invasion of Ukraine; 11 months in which the Ukrainian people have showed Putin and the world the full force of their courage and the indomitable determination to live free. And through every single step of this horrific war, the American people have been strong and unwavering in their support. And Democrats and Republicans in Congress have stood together. The United States has worked in lockstep with our Allies and partners around the world to make sure the Ukrainian people are in the strongest possible position to defend their nation, their families, and against the brutal — the truly brutal aggression of Russia. We haven’t seen the likes of this in a long time. The United States and Europe are fully united. This morning, I had a long conversation with our NATO Allies — German Chancellor Scholz, French President Macron, Prime Minister Sunak, and the Italian Prime Minister, Meloni — to continue our close coordination in our full support of Ukraine. Because you all know — I’ve been saying this a long time — the expectation on the part of Russia is we’re going to break up, we’re not going to stay united. But we are fully, thoroughly, totally united. With spring approaching, the Ukrainian forces are working to defend the territory they hold and preparing for additional counter-offensives. To liberate their land, they need to be able to counter Russia’s evolving tactics and strategy on the battlefield in the very near term. They need to improve their ability to maneuver in open terrain. And they need an enduring capability to deter and defend against Russian aggression over the long term. The Secretary of State and the Secretary of the — of the military are behind me. Are — they — they’ve been deeply, deeply involved in this — this whole effort. Armored capability, as General Austin will tell you, spe- — is — has been — has been critical. And that’s why the United States has committed hundreds of armored fighting vehicles to date, including more than 500 as part of the assistance package we announced last Friday. And today — today, I’m announcing that the United States will be sending 31 Abram tanks to Ukraine, the equivalent of one Ukrainian battalion. Secretary Austin has recommended this step because it will enhance the Ukraine’s capacity to defend its territory and achieve its strategic objectives. The Abrams tanks are the most capable tanks in the world. They’re also extremely complex to operate and maintain, so we’re also giving Ukraine the parts and equipment necessary to effectively sustain these tanks on the battlefield. And we begi- — we’ll begin to train the Ukrainian troops on these issues of sustainment, logistics, and maintenance as soon as possible. Delivering these tanks to the field is going to take time, time that we’ll see — we’ll use to make sure the Ukrainians are fully prepared to integrate the Abram tanks into their defenses. We also closely coordinated this announcement with our Allies. The American contribution will be joined by an additional announcement, including that will be — will be readily available and more easily integrated for use on the battlefield in the coming weeks and months from other countries. I’m grateful to Chancellor Scholz for providing German Leopard 2 tanks and will lead an effort to organize the European contribution of two tank battalions for Ukraine. I want to thank the Chancellor for his leadership and his steadfast commitment to our collective efforts to support Ukraine. Germany has really stepped up, and the Chancellor has been a strong, strong voice for unity — a close friend — and for the level of effort we’re going to continue. Supporting Ukraine’s ability to fight off Russian aggression to defend its sovereignty and territorial integrity is a worldwide commitment. Not just lo- — it’s worldwide commitment. Last week, Germany — in Germany, Secretary Austin convened the Ukraine Defense Contact Group for the eighth time. This group is made up of some 50 nations — 50 nations — each making significant contributions of their own to Ukraine’s integrity, each fully committed to making Ukraine remain strong and independent and able to defend itself against Russian threats and violence. I want to thank every member of that coalition for continuing to step up. The UK — the United Kingdom — recently announced that it is donating Challenger 2 tanks to Ukraine. France is contributing AMX-10s, armored fighting vehicles. In addition to the Leopard tanks that Germany, like the United States, is also — Germany is also sending a pat- — a Patriot missile battery. The Netherlands is donating a Patriot missile and launchers. France, Canada, the UK, Slovakia, Norway, and others have all donated critical air defense systems to help secure Ukrainian skies and save the lives of innocent civilians who are literally the target — the target of Russia’s aggression. Poland is sending armored vehicles. Sweden is donating infantry fighting vehicles. Italy is giving artillery. Denmark and Estonia are sending howitzers. Latvia is providing more Stinger missiles. Lithuania is providing anti-aircraft guns. And Finland recently announced its largest package of security assistance to date. You may remember, when I was asked a while ago, what I think was going to happen. And I said — I let Putin know. He thought that he was going to have — end up with the Findalization of Europe. Well, he’s got the NATOization of Finland. He’s gotten something that he never intended. Together with our Allies and partners, we’ve sent more than 3,000 armored vehicles, more than 8,000 artillery systems, more than 2 million rounds of artillery ammunition, and more than 50 advanced multi-launch rocket systems, anti-ship and air defense systems, all to help counter Ukraine’s brutal aggression that is happening because of Russia. And, look, today’s announcement builds on the hard work and commitment from countries around the world, led by the United States of America, to help Ukraine defend its sovereignty and its territorial integrity. That’s what this is about: helping Ukraine defend and protect Ukrainian land. It is not an offensive threat to Russia. We are — there is no offensive threat to Russia. If Russian troops returned to Russia, they’ll be there for — where they belong, and this war would be over today. That’s what we all want: an end to this war in just and lasting terms. You know, our teams do not permit one nation — we’re not going to allow one nation to steal a neighbor’s territory by force. Our terms that preserve Russia’s sovereign — Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity and honor the U.N. Charter, that’s our — they’re the terms we’re working on. And, you know, these are — these the terms we all signed up for and 143 nations voted for in the United Nations General Assembly last October. So, the United States, standing shoulder-to-shoulder with our Allies and partners, is going to continue to do all we can to support Ukraine. Putin expected Europe and the United States to weaken our resolve. He expected our support for Ukraine to crumble with time. He was wrong. He was wrong. And he was wrong from the beginning, and he continues to be wrong. We are united. America is united and so is the world. And we approach the one-year mark — as we do — of the Russian full-scale invasion of Ukraine, we remain as united and determined as ever in our conviction and our cause. These tanks are further evidence of our enduring and unflagging commitment to Ukraine and our confidence in the skill of the Ukrainian forces. As I told President Zelenskyy when he was here — and today is his birthday, by the way — in December: We’re with you for as long as it takes, Mr. President. Ukrainians are fighting an age-old battle against aggression and domination. It’s a battle Americans have fought proudly time and again, and it’s a battle we’re going to make sure the Ukrainians are well equipped to fight as well. This is about freedom. Freedom for Ukraine, freedom everywhere. It’s about the kind of world we want to live in and the world we want to leave our children. So, may God protect the brave Ukrainian defenders of their country who keep the flame of liberty burning brightly as we can. Thank you. 
Thank you all very much for what has been, from our perspective, a very good conference so far. And we’re about at the end. You must be still exhausted from having not caught up on your sleep. But — I was going to say “good afternoon.” It’s almost “good evening.” And I want to thank you for — — thank you for joining me. I understand several flights had to leave, and I’m surprised you all didn’t use that excuse. I’m on- — I’m only kidding. I can’t think of a more critical topic to end this summit on. We’re facing a global food crisis, and — and nowhere is it felt more keenly than on the African continent. Last year, nearly 120 million people in Africa faced a food — acute food insecurity. And only halfway through the — 2022, a drought struck and the food costs soared, in part due to Russia’s unprovoked war against Ukraine, and the number increased to 140 million people facing acute food insecurity in Africa. Today, famine once more stalks the Horn of Africa. High food prices and high trade barriers are taking a toll on the lives and livelihoods of — of millions of people across the continent. And conflict, climate change, COVID-19 continue to compound the impacts of the global food crisis for all countries around this table. And the challenges we face are both clear and they are urgent. That’s why, this year alone, the United States has committed nearly $11 billion in humanitarian and food insecurity assistan- — food security assistance — assistance to deal with food insecurity, including a dramatic surge on the Horn of Africa. And this afternoon, I’m announcing an additional $2 billion in humanitarian assistance to address afu- — acute food insecurity in Africa, assistance that’s going to help ensure that children and families don’t have to go to bed hungry. And we’re not stopping there. Food security is an essential to the foundation of a broader peace and prosperity, in my view. Simply put, if a parent can’t feed their child, nothing else really matters. So we’re bringing everything to bear on this issue in short-, medium-, and long-term efforts. First, we’re deepening our collaboration with countries across Africa to tackle food insecurity. This whole summit we’ve been focused on Africa’s enormous potential for growth — for economic growth — growth that can lift people out of poverty and help lessen chronic hunger. Africa is also significant unused arable farmland — has a significant amount of it — land that can be used to transform the continent’s agricultural sector and food system. I’ve discussed this with our Secretary of Agriculture, and there’s enormous potential. Enormous potential. And it also — in short, Africa has the potential to feed its people and also help feed the world. The United States is going to continue to work with the AU to advance the Comprehensive Africa Agriculture Development Program, which lays out the vision for Africa’s food security and climate-resilient future. Already, we’re expanding our Feed the Future initiative to eight new countries, all in Africa, to increase our investment in communities hit hardest by the recent food shocks. Since we started this initiative back when I was Vice President, we’ve helped lift over 23 million people above the property li- — poverty line around the world. And the largest expansion of that — that help has gone even — we’re going to go — the latest expansion will go even further. We’re also making critical investments in trade and transportation infrastructure, like the Millennium Challenge Corporation Regional transit — Transport Compact, the one that I announced yesterday, so food can move more quickly and easily from farmers to markets, from markets to families who need it. And we’re collaborating with countries across the continent to expand access to new markets and reduce trade barriers that constrict access to food, including by supporting the implementation of the African Continental Free Trade Agreement . Next, we’re strengthening our partnership with the private sector to help transform investments into impact. Today, the United States is launching a new strategic partnership with the African Union. We’re teaming up to create a more resilient food system, improving how communities can grow, sell, and buy their own food. This includes investing in infrastructure that will promote sustainable food security, like irrigation, roads, grain storage, and so much more. We’re also working with the private sector to expand investment — in investment that’s going to significantly increase agricultural inputs like fertilizer and climate-resilient seeds which will enable more food production and more reliable food supplies. And finally, we’re bringing the world together to meet this global challenge. We’re going to continue to ensure that the G7 and the G20 remain focused on food security. As I announced earlier today, we fully support the African Union joining the G20 as a permanent member. We also continue to support extending the U.N.-brokered deal to facilitate the export of Ukrainian grain, which will benefit not only Africa but people around the globe. We’re going to continue supporting multilateral organizations like the World Food Program and the Global Agriculture and Food Security Program. They’re going to help boost agriculture production, mitigate food shortages, and promote intra-African trade. Let me close with this. A few days ago, President Sall was asked what’s — what success at this summit would look like. Mr. President, I recall you saying that the United States must show, quote, “the will to work with Africans.” Success will show the will to work with Africans. And I believe that is on a concrete, sustainable solution that we are committed to in the United States. We have the will to work with Africans, and we need you. President Sall, every leader around this room, I hope we’re making it clear today and every day: It’s not just showing the will but doing the work. And there’s a lot of work to be done. This is a global food security crisis, and we need to solve it together. Your leadership and partnership is absolutely essential to solving it. So, this afternoon, I want to listen. I want to hear from you about what more we should be doing. And with that, I’m now going to turn this over to Secretary Yellen, our Secretary of the Treasury, to get the conversation started. Again, thank you again for being here. And thank you for being part of what, so far, has been a useful conference. 4:56 P.M. EST
Well, good still morning, everyone. I — I realized last night, when our dinner ended and the entertainment ended, it was five o’clock in the morning for most of you. So I admire your collective stamina. Thank you very much. And I promise my comments will not take you to tomorrow morning. My friends, I’m honored to host you all here in Washington for the U.S.-African Su- — Leaders Summit. It’s wonderful to spend time with you and your spouses last night at dinner. And I truly enjoyed it, and thank you for making the time. And let me also convey my condolences to the people of the Democratic Republic of the Congo for the tragic loss of life and the communities impacted due to the flooding. Mr. President, we missed you last night, but if there’s anything the United States can do to help in this effort, please, please let us know. We’ll do whatever we can. Today, I’m looking forward to hearing more from all of you about the issues and priorities that matter most to Africa and how we can deepen our cooperation. And I emphasize “cooperation.” Our nations have worked closely together for a long time. We’ve improved the lives of countless people in all our countries in meaningful ways, on both sides of the Atlantic. And with this summit, and with the African Union’s Agenda 2063, our eyes are fixed squarely on the future. We’re now in the early years that will be deci- — that will be a decisive decade. The choices that we make today and the remainder of this decade and how we tackle these challenges, in my view, will determine the direction the entire world takes in the decades to come. As I said yesterday, the United States is all in on Africa and all in with Africa. African voices, African leadership, African innovation all are critical to addressing the most pressing global challenges and to realizing the vision we all share: a world that is free, a world that is open, prosperous, and secure. Africa belongs at the table in every room — in every room where global challenges are being discussed and in every institution where discussions are taking place. That’s why I announced in September, at the United Nations General Assembly, that the United States fully supports reforming the U.N. Security Council to include permanent representation for Africa. And today I’m also calling for the African Union to join the G20 as a permanent member of the G20. Whether it’s — — it’s been a long time in coming, but it’s going to come. And today I’m also — whether we’re upholding or defending the foundational principles of global peace and security enshrined in the U.N. Charter and the U.N. — and in the AU’s semil- — seminal documents, or meeting the challenges that impact every nation, the people of Africa are indispensable partners, delivering — to delivering the progress that benefits everyone, not just in Africa and the United States, but the whole world. The COVID-19 pandemic, followed by Russia’s unjust and unprovoked war against its neighbor Ukraine, has roiled the global economy, erasing many of the development gains that we worked so hard together to achieve over the past two decades. But that doesn’t change our shared goals and our commitment to seeing them through. It only makes it more urgent for us to take decisive action and take it together. That’s why, over the next three years, working in close cooperation with the United States Congress, we plan to commit $55 billion in Africa to advance the priorities we share and su- — and to support the Agenda 2063. That number represents a comprehensive commitment from the United States to invest in Africa’s people, Africa’s infrastructure, Africa’s agriculture, Africa’s health system, Africa’s security, and more. In our view, our new shared vision statement lays out a forward-looking foundation for the 21st century partnership between Africa and the United States. We want to work with you on these issues that matter most to our people’s lives. And we’re looking to increase our collaboration in every area, from rural communities to urban centers, to cyber space to outer space. In addition to our investments, we’re also committed to helping African countries assess the financing you need — the financing you need to build sustainable and inclusive economies. We’re leading a global effort to pursue equitable arrangements for global creditors to provide debt relief so nations can prioritize their people, not back-breaking debt payments. And I’m asking the Congress for the authority to lend $21 billion to the International Monetary Fund to provide access to necessary financing for low- and middle-income countries — which is so difficult to come by now — and to — will help Africa’s recovery efforts and support projects that build resilience against future crises. As we engage with your countries, the United States will always lead with our values. Support for democracy, respect for the rule of law, commitment to human rights, responsible government — all are part of our DNA. That doesn’t mean we always get everything right. We surely don’t. And the work of democracy is never finished or never guaranteed. It’s about consistent and constant self-improvement. But that’s why democracy is the best tool we have to address the wide range of challenges we all face, and that belief is shared by Africans and Americans alike. From South Africa’s world-changing triumph over apartheid to Nigeria’s “Not Too Young To Run” movement empowering a new generation of change-makers, to the record voter turnout in Zambia, where young people demanded a better future, we see over and over again that our greatest power is our people. So one of the new commitments I want to highlight today is the investment in countering democratic backsliding through our new African Democratic and Political Transition initiative. Collaborating closely with African governments, regional institutions, and civil society, my administration will work with the United States Congress to invest $75 million to strengthen transparent, accountable governance; facilities — facilitate voter registration; support constitutional reform; and more. We’ll also work to support and strengthen the security benefits that flow from good governance, including with a new 21st Century Partnership for African Security. Through this three-year, 100-billion-dollar — 100-million-dollar pilot program, the Department of Defense will work with our African partners to boost reforms that build their security capacity. Now, as every leader here understands, the real measure of success is not in announcements, but it’s in the follow-through. That’s why I’ve asked one of our great diplomats — a man with deep respect for Africa and long experience working with the governments across the continent — to oversee implementation coming out of this summit: Ambassador Johnnie Carson. Many of you already know him personally. You certainly know his skill and his reputation. So you know that he’s going to make sure we translate our commitments on paper into progress that people can see in their daily lives. And on Tuesday, I also directed the establishment of the President’s Advisory Council on African Diaspora Engagement in the United States so we can tap the enormous strength of the diaspora communities here in the United States and make sure their insight and experiences are reflected in our work. And finally, I’m grateful that all of you have made the journey to Washington for this summit, and I’m eager to visit your continent. As I told some of you — you invited me to your countries. I said, “Be careful what you wish for because I may show up.” The poor relatives always show up. The wealthy ones never show up. The poor come and they eat your food and stay longer than they should. Well, I’m looking forward to seeing many of you in your home countries. I also directed the establishment of the President’s Advisory Council, as I said, on the di- — on the diaspora, and we’ll get input from them. And finally, I’m grateful that all of you have made the journey, as I said. And I know it’s been long. And I know when you arrive here at — in the middle of the night and then start off a couple hours later at meetings, it’s a long haul. I — Vice President Harris is also planning to visit, as is my wife, Jill. Secretary Blinken is on his way. Secretary of Defense Austin. Secretary of the Treasury Yellen. Secretary of Commerce Raimondo. The USAID Administrator, Power. And our Ambassador to the United Nations, Linda Thomas-Greenfield. Promise you’ll send them back. Promise you’ll send them back. I need them. They all want to go, but I’m worried they won’t come home. The — but I’m all — all kidding aside, we’re all going to be seeing you and — you’re going to see a lot of us because we’re deadly earnest and serious about this endeavor. And you’re going to see us deliver our commitments — all of our commitments. Now we’ve crafted this summit and this agenda in close cooperation with the African Union and focus on African priorities. The United States fully supports the blueprint you laid out in Agenda 2063 to build an integrated — quote, “integrated, prosperous, and peaceful Africa” that is driven by African people, centered in inclusive and sustainable development and where Africa is an indispensable global partner. I’m eager to hear from all of you how can the United States deepen our partnerships with you and better work with African nations and the AU to fulfill the aspirations of Agenda 2063. And I want to thank you all again. And I’m now going to turn it over to Secretary of State Blinken to facilitate our discussion. Again, thank you so much for being here. Appreciate it. 11:53 A.M. EST
Hello, hello, hello. It’s good to see you all. Please have a seat. And I know you’re saying to yourselves, “Make it short, Biden. There’s a…” — — “… There’s a semi-final game coming up.” I get it. I see Secretary Kerry over there nodding. Hey, John. How are you, pal? Well, I want to thank Secretary Raimondo — she is one of the brightest and best folks I have working with me — and for all of you in this room for making this forum a success, particularly in Prosper Africa deal room. That sounds like something we shouldn’t be saying. “Prop-” — you know, “Prosper Africa deal room.” I kept asking, “Where’s — where’s the deal room?” I think I’m looking at it. Folks, I want to thank you all for being here, particularly since I said Morocco is about to play as the first African nation in the semi-finals of the World Cup. Distinguished heads of state; leaders of regional and global institutions; and, of course, representatives of more than 300 companies, African and American: Welcome to Washington. And I want to recognize our co-host, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the Corporate Council of Africa — two great compa- — two great champions for building and growing ties of business and trade and investment between Africa and the United States — as well as the members of my administration and the members of Congress who are here today. All the members of Congress, please stand up, if you’re here so I know — can identify who you are. There’s the man. All right. And I’m sure you’re out there somewhere. Look, this forum is about building connections. It’s about closing deals. And above all, it’s about the future, our shared future. We’ve known for a long time that Africa’s success and prosperity is essential to ensuring a better future for all of us, not just for Africa. I’ve been engaged in these issues going back to my days as a young man in the United States Senate. When I was on the Foreign Relations Committee, I was chairman of the African Affairs subcommittee and got to spend a lot of time in Africa. I’ve visited almost all of your countries. When I was Vice President, serving with President Obama, we hosted the first U.S.-Africa Leaders Summit, including U.S.-Africa Business Forum. We saw so clearly the enormous potential that we could harness if we did it together. And holding the first-of-its-kind summit in 2014 was a watershed moment to cement new kinds of partnerships between our nations, partnerships not to create political obligation, not — or foster dependence — its dependence, but to spur shared success — I emphasize “shared success” — and opportunity. Because when Africa succeeds, the United States succeeds; quite frankly, the whole world succeeds as well. Now, eight years later, the world has undergone a great many changes. We’re still grappling with a deadly pandemic, facing down war and instability, addressing economic challenges of — with global impact, fighting — fighting rising food prices, tackling the impacts of climate change. And each of these crises has only heightened — heightened the vital role African nations and peoples play to address the global challenges that drive our global progress. We can’t solve any of these challenges without African leadership at the table — and I’m not trying to be nice; that’s a fact — African ideas and innovation helping to shape the solutions and Africa population contributing to every step. So the only question when I took office was not if we’d host another U.S.-African Leadership Summit, but when. My administration’s engagement with Africa and the priority we place on these relationships began on day one. We’ve been working steadily with regional diplomacy and investments to demonstrate our commitment. We harnessed decades — decades of cooperation through PEPFAR and President’s Malaria Initiative, and other partnerships on global health security to help save lives and combat Clovid-ni- — COVID-19. The United States delivered 231 — 231 million doses of vaccines to 49 countries across Africa, and worked together with you to get the vaccines into the arms to har- — in hard-to-reach communities. Critically, we invested in Africa’s capacity to manufacture its own vaccines, diagnostics, and therapeutics so Africa — Africa can meet its own needs and contribute to the global supply chain. And even as we work to end COVID-19, we continue building stronger health systems and institutions, and accelerating efforts to achieve universal health coverage to make sure we’re better prepared to tackle the health challenges, including the next pandemic. And there surely will be one. We also advanced our commitment to strengthen food security, including expanding the Feed the Future program to partner with eight additional African countries. And I’ll be speaking more tomorrow about this effort to both address the immediate food crisis and strengthen the food system in Africa for the long term. We’re taking on climate crisis, prioritizing just — not just energy transition in America but in nations of all of Africa, and meeting the urgent needs to countries to adapt to the climate impacts that are already here. Just last month, I traveled to COP27 in Egypt where I announced $150 million in an effort to support adaptation efforts in Africa, a down payment on my commitment to provide $3 billion annually to global adaptation efforts for 2024. And in a year that has seen elections across Africa, we have worked together with the African Union to strengthen democracy and the core values that unite our people — all our people, especially young people — freedom, opportunity, transparency, good governance. Now, you might be thinking this is a forum dedicated to deepening business ties and advancing two-way trade investments between Africa and the United States. “Why is Biden talking so much about all these other areas?” Well, it’s because Africa’s economic transition depends on good government, healthy populations, and reliable and affordable energy. These things business seeks out when they’re looking to invest. They attract new opportunities, and they launch new partnerships. And the United States is committed to supporting every aspect — every aspect of Africa’s inclusive growth and creating the best possible environment for sustained commercial engagement between Africa companies and American companies. The United States is all in on Africa’s future. And the work we’ve done over the past two years, building on decades of vital investments made under previous American presidents, has helped make possible the critical steps that I’m about to announce. First, the United States is signing an historic memorandum of understanding with the new African Continental Free Trade Area Secretariat. This MOU will unlock new opportunities for trade and investment between our countries and bring Africa and the United States even closer than ever. This is an enormous opportunity — an enormous opportunity for Africa’s future, and the United States wants to help make those opportunities real. We’re finally implementing the African Continental Free Trade Area. It will represent one of the largest free trade areas in the world, 1.3 billion people, and a continent-wide market totaling $3.4 trillion. And with the new MOU, we’re doing things correctly: enshrining protections for workers both across Africa and in the United States; looking out for small- and medium-sized entrepreneurs and enterprises to make sure they have a fair shot to compete; lifting up opportunity for women-owned businesses, diaspora-owned businesses, and businesses owned by members of historically underserved communities; and supporting and investing in the continent’s vibrant and growing urban economies. Together, we want to build a future of opportunity where no one — no one is left behind. Second, we’re investing to facilitate greater regional trade within Africa, including by investing in infrastructure. Today, the Millennium Challenge Corporation signed its first-ever regional transport compact with the governments of Benin and Niger. This compact will invest $500 million to build and maintain roads, put in place policies that reduce transportation costs, making it easier and faster for ships to ship goods from the Port of Cot- — excuse me, from the Port of Cotonou to neighboring locked — landlocked countries. Since the start of my administration, the MCC has announced new investments of nearly $1.2 billion in Africa. We expect the MCC to commit an additional $2.5 billion across Africa in just the next three years, supporting everything from agriculture to transportation to access to renewable energy. In fact, the MCC just announced dec- — decis- — excuse me — just announced discussions for partnerships with four African countries, our first com- — four compacts: Gambia, Togo to boost economic development; and a compact with Senegal to bolster regional connections; and a threshold program with Mauritania to help strengthen democratic governance and pursue policy reform to unlock economic growth. These MCC investments are part of the work we’re doing worldwide through the Partnership for Global Infrastructure and Investment. I proposed this initiative together with the rest of the G7 to help fill the need for quality, high-standard infrastructure in Africa and in low-income and middle-income countries around the world. And at the G7 meeting earlier this year, we announced our intention to collectively mobilize $600 billion in the next five years. Today’s announcements joint — join a portfolio of Partnership for Global Infrastructure and Investment projects already underway in Africa, including mobilizing $8 billion in public and private finance to help South Africa replace coal-fired power plants with renewable energy sources and develop cutting-edge energy solutions like clean hydrogen; a deal worth $2 billion to build solar energy projects in Angola; $600 million in high-speed telecommunications cable that will connect Southeast Asia to Europe via Egypt and the Horn of Africa and help bring high-speed Internet connectivity to countries all along the way. The bottom line is simple: Trade runs on reliable infrastructure to support and secure resilient supply chains. And improving Africa’s infrastructure is essential to our vision of building a stronger global economy that can better withstand the kinds of shocks that we’ve seen in the past few years. Third, we’re continuing to support innovation and entrepreneurship across Africa, investing in the African — investing in Africa’s people. Developing human capital, alongside physical infrastructure, is another core aspect of the Partnership for Global Infrastructure and Investment. Today, I’m announcing that the U.S. International Development Finance Corporation is investing nearly $370 million in new projects: $100 million to increase the reliable clean energy for millions of people in Sub-Saharan Africa; $20 million to provide financing for fertilizer to help smallholder farmers, particularly women farmers, increase the yields of their crops; $10 million to support small- and medium-sized — small- and medium-sized enterprises that help bring clean drinking water to communities all across the continent. Just to name a few examples. And we also know — and we also know that one the most essential resources of any entrepreneur or small-business owner who wants to participate in the global economy is reliable and affordable access to the Internet. So, today, I’m announcing a new initiative: the Digital Transformation with Africa. Working with Congress to invest $350 billion to facilitate more than almost half a billion dollars in financing to make sure more people across Africa can participate in the digital economy. That includes partnerships like a new collaboration between Microsoft and Viasat to bring in Internet access to 5 million Africans, part of Microsoft’s commitment to bring access to 100 million people across Africa by the end of the year 2025. That means — that means programs to train African entrepreneurs with a focus on women entrepreneurs to code and build skills that need to start their own businesses, to secure good-paying jobs and technol- — with technology firms. And this will include partnerships between Africa, American comp- — African and American companies to provide cybersecurity services to make sure Africa’s digital environment is reliable and secure. And that brings me to my final announcement. I said at the top of this forum about closing deals, and we’ve delivered. So, just give me a few — let’s give you a few highlights from the deal room, for the benefits they will deliver to Africa. Cisco Systems and Cy- — Cybastion, a diaspora-owned small business, is jointly announcing $800 million in new contracts to protect African countries from cyber threats. Visa is committing and putting more than $1 billion into Africa over the next five years to further expand the operations on the continent, including providing mobile payment services for more micro-, small-, and medium-sized businesses across Africa. General Electric and Standard Bank will together provide $80 million to improve healthcare services and provide access to cutting-edge healthcare equipment. Altogether, the forum has spurred more than $15 billion in new deals, which will turn, lift up, and improve lives of people all across the continent. And that’s the biggest deal of all. These are long-term investments that are going to deliver real benefits to people; create new, good-paying jobs, including here in the United States; and expand opportunities for all our countries for the years to come. All of you — all of you, the deals you’ve signed, the investments we’ve made together, are concrete proof of the enduring commitment we’re making to one another, government to government, business to business, people to people. And most important — and this is just the beginning — there’s so much more we can do together and that we will do together. So, thank you for your participation today, for being part of another historic U.S.-African Leaders Summit. We’ve got a lot of ground to cover in the coming days, and I’m eager to listen to the priorities you have for the future of the partnership between our nations. So, thank you all. And may God protect our troops. Thank you very, very much. Appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you very much. 2:04 P.M. EST
Thanks for being here. I — as you saw, I just met with the leaders of NATO and the G7 and — to talk about the latest events in Europe, and I briefed them on my discussions with President Duda of Poland, as well as NATO Secretary General Stoltenberg. And we agreed to support Poland’s investigation into the explosion in rural Poland, near the Ukrainian border. And I’m going to make sure we figure out exactly what happened. Our empathy — sympathy goes out to — apparently, two people were killed. And then we’re going to collectively determine our next step as we investigate and proceed. There was total unanimity among the folks at the table. And we also discussed the latest series of Russian missile attacks, which are continuing the brutality and inhumanity that they’ve demonstrated throughout this war against Ukrainian cities and civilian infrastructures. And they’ve been totally unconscionable, what they’re doing. Totally unconscionable. And the moment when the world came together at the G20 to urge de-escalation, Russia continues to — has chosen to escalate in Ukraine, while we’re meeting. I mean, there were scores and scores of attack — missile attacks into western Ukraine. We support Ukraine fully in this moment, and we have — we have since the start of this conflict. And we’re going to continue to do whatever it takes to give them the capacity to defend themselves. 
Well, good afternoon, everyone. We haven’t heard enough from everybody, so we’re going to go another five hours. I — I want to welcome you all. The — I’m going to make some brief opening comments and then yield to my friend, who’s been doing not much today except doing this all day, and then to — as much as I’d like to go to President von der Leyen, who I like better than anybody here. But — so we’re going to begin now. Folks, good afternoon. I want to thank everyone for being here. You’ve done a tremendous job, by the way, for — really. You’ve done a great job. And focusing on our efforts of the — of the G20 — Do I have this on? Yes. — the G20 — toward restoring and recovering together and recovering stronger. As we were saying outside — we were having a photograph taken — I’m convinced we’re going to come out of this crisis we’ve been through, and the pandemic and other things, stronger than we went in. Every time we engage, we get better. And I — today we’re focused on investing together and investing stronger than we have in the past. In June, I joined my fellow G7 leaders to officially launch the Partnership for Global Infrastructure and Investment, with the collective goal of mobilizing $600 billion in five years for quality, sustainability, and innovative infrastructure, and investments in low- and middle-income countries. As I’ve spoken with the — my Canadian friends, this is something that we have an obligation to do, it seems to me, to deal with those nations that are not the primary cause of many of our problems, but are now left with a great deal of difficulty. I want to emphasize the word “investments” — investments that are driven by local needs, in development with our partners, and delivering real results to improve the lives of all of our people. Through the partnership, we’ve already launched an array of new projects with countries across the G20 and beyond, collaborating in new ways on climate, energy security, and digital connectivity, health infrastructure, and gender equity and gender equality. And let me give you some examples of the work we’ve been doing. First, in climate and on energy security: As we accelerate our investment and speed transition to clean energy future to meet the climate crisis head on, we have to make sure that they benefit people everywhere — everywhere — not just in the larger countries. And that’s why we’re proud to partner with Indonesia and Japan under both of our colleagues — an unflagging leadership from both them — together with a broad coalition of countries to create the Just Energy Transition Partnership — not “just” like “soon,” but “to be just” energy partnership. Also critical to this effort has been the work of the Glasgow Financial Alliance for Net Zero, co-chaired by my friend and champion of global climate efforts, Mike Bloomberg. Together, we hope to mobili- — we’re mobilizing $20 billion to support Indonesia’s efforts to reduce emissions and expand renewable energy, and support workers in the most affected — who are most affected by the transition away from coal, and that can be difficult. That $20 billion from partner governments and some of the world’s leading financial institutions will accelerate an ambitious energy transition that has a global impact. We also plan to invest $798 million through the new Millennium Challenge Corporation with Indonesia, which will build climate-resilient transportation and support Indonesia’s development goals. And around the world, we’re also investing in critical minerals, supply chains, and technology needed for a clean energy transition. For example, in Honduras, the Export-Import Bank is financing one of the largest-ever solar projects in the Americas. In Brazil, the U.S. International Development Finance Corporation has invested $30 million in equity in TechMet Limited’s mining in nic- — for — to mine nickel and cobalt, two of the minerals most needed to power electric vehicles and other clean energy technologies. Together, these investments are going to create jobs in the communities where this mining takes place, and they support and help curb climate change — end global climate change. Next, we’re investing in digital connectivity. As a matter of fact, when I was elected President, we invested in an infrastructure project at home because we found out — we focused on this, and we found out a significant portion of the people in my country, as — as wealthy as we’ve been, are — did not have access to — to the Internet. So we’ve — we’re — we came up with a billion 200 hundred million dollars in infrastructure to make sure every single community — rural communities and others. Well, that’s the case all around the world. And so we’re — this digital connectivity, we’re teaming up with a range of partners to ensure people have access to the Internet — affordable access to the Internet — and other technologies. We qui- — these technologies are required to participate in today’s economies. And — for example, we’re working together with Japan and Australia to upgrade networks in Papua New Guinea and across the Pacific, improving security, performance, and access to digital services. And through the United States’ Digital Investment blended finance program, we are working with Kenya partner CSquared to establish a nationwide fiber network in Liberia that’s going to help connect 1 million Liberians to the web. And the next is health infrastructure. We’ve seen over the last few years, strengthening health security must be — must be a priority for all of us. We just went through a long discussion on that. That’s why we’re continuing to support vaccine manufacturing in Africa and Asia and investing $15 million through the U.S. International Development Finance Corporation in India’s health infrastructure, as just a few examples. And finally, gender equity and gender equality. When we invest in equal opportunity for women, we can deliver greater prosperity for everyone — for everyone. And so, we’re working with the G7 nations and the World Bank to launch the Invest in Childcare Initiative to help families get children they need — get the childcare they need, and help women get the opportunities they deserve to be able to be in the workforce. We’re already starting to see returns. For example, the initiative has funded a project in Somalia, and that will help nearly 300,000 women across the country to build literacy and leadership skills. These are just some of the projects where our countries are stepping up to deliver impact investments. And we’re at an inflection point. Investments we make together today will have far-reaching impacts on the world for generations to come. If we don’t make them, it will also have far-reaching impacts — if we don’t make these investments. And so, creating real opportunity, greater equality, and a more secure, healthy, and prosperous world is what we’re all about. Moving forward, we have to continue to invest together and invest stronger. And we welcome all who share this vision to join this partnership. And I want to thank you. And now I’d like to turn it over to a man we haven’t heard from for the last few days — — Widodo. It’s all yours, Joko. 4:59 P.M. CIT
Welcome to Bali. Please. Good evening, everyone. Let me start with a few words about the recent elections held in the United States. What we saw was the strength and resilience of the American democracy, and we saw it in action. And the American people proved once again that democracy is who we are. And there was a strong rejection of election deniers at every level, from those seeking to lead our states and those seeking to serve in Congress and also those seeking to oversee the elections. And there was a strong rejection of political violence and voter intimidation. There was an emphatic statement that in America, the will of the people prevails. I have — I’ve traveled this week, and it’s been clear just how closely the world and our allies and our competitors as well have been following our elections at home. Excuse me, I have a little cold. And what these elections showed is that there is a deep and unwavering commitment in America to preserving and protecting and defending democracy. Now, let me speak briefly about our agenda over the past few days in Egypt and in Cambodia and here in Indonesia. In this moment of great global challenges — from global inflation, to the climate crisis, to Russia’s brutal war against Ukraine — we’re bringing together the broadest possible coalition of partners to deliver results. At COP27 in Egypt, I made it clear that thanks to the bold agenda of our administration we pursued from day one to tackle the climate crisis and advance energy and security at home and around the world, the United States will meet — the United States will meet our emissions target under the — targets under the Paris Agreement. And we’re going to keep working with our partners to support the most vulnerable countries in building resilience to climate impacts and to align global ambition with the 1.5-degree Celsius goal while super-charging our clean energy transition. At the U.S.-ASEAN Summit and the East Asia Summit, I laid out a commitment to working with our partners in the Indo-Pacific to ensure a future that — that’s vital of this region, that’s free and open and prosperous, as well as secure. And I met with our allies from Australia, Japan, and the Republic of Korea, underscoring our commitment and deepening our engagement with our closest partners, and strengthening cooperation among our allies to meet shared threats to our own security and to their security, including the DPRK. And let me meet — I just met in person with Xi Jinping of the People’s Republic of China. We had — — excuse me — we had an open and candid conversation about our intentions and our priorities. It was clear — he was clear and I was clear — that we’ll defend American interests and values, promote universal human rights, and stand up for the international order, and work in lockstep with our allies and partners. We’re going to compete vigorously. But I’m not looking for conflict, I’m looking to manage this competition responsibly. And I want to make sure — make sure that every country abides by the international rules of the road. And we discussed that. The One China policy — our One China policy has not changed — has not changed. We oppose unilateral change in the status quo by either side, and we’re committed to maintaining the peace and stability in the Taiwan Straits. I was also clear that China and the United States should be able to work together where we can to solve global challenges that require every nation to do its part. We discussed Russia’s aggression against Ukraine, reaffirmed our shared belief in the threat where the use of nuclear weapons is totally unacceptable. And I asked that Secretary Blinken travel to China to follow up on our discussions and continue keeping the lines of communication open between our two countries. Looking ahead at the G20 meetings tomorrow, we’re going to be talking — taking on the very issues that matter to the people’s lives, not only here but also — also our allies and our partners. That means tackling the suffering that Russia aggression has unleashed, not just on Ukrainian people, but the people around world, particularly food insecurity, and strengthening the fundamentals of our global economy for everyone: support for debt relief, reforms for multilateral development banks, investments to bolster global health security and to make sure the world is better prepared for the next pandemic. The G20 has been an important forum for the world’s largest economies to work together for the good of people everywhere, and I’m looking forward to our meetings tomorrow. Now, let me close with this: On my first trip overseas last year, I said that America was back — back at home, back at the table, and back to leading the world. In the year and a half that’s followed, we’ve shown exactly what that means. America is keeping its commitments. America is investing in our strength at home. America is working alongside our allies and partners to deliver real, meaningful progress around the world. And at this critical moment, no nation is better positioned to help build the future we want than the United States of America. Now I’m happy to take questions. And I’m told there are going to be four questioners, but I’m not going to do 10 questions from each questioner, all right? I’ll make that clear at the outset here. And — — so, Ken Thomas, Wall Street Journal. Well, to answer the first part of your question, I absolutely believe there’s need not be a new Cold War. We — I’ve met many times with Xi Jinping, and we were candid and clear with one another across the board. And I do not think there’s any imminent attempt on the part of China to invade Taiwan. And I made it clear that our policy in Taiwan has not changed at all. It’s the same exact position we’ve had. I made it clear that we want to see cross-strait issues peacefully resolved. And — and so it never has to come to that. And I’m convinced that — that he understood exactly what I was saying. I understood what he was saying. And, look, I think the United States is better prepared than any country in the world, economically and politically, to deal with the changing circumstances around the world. And I think that — I think Xi Jinping is — we agreed that we would set up a certain set of circumstances where on issues that were — that we had to further resolve details, we agreed that we would have our chief of sta- — our — the appropriate Cabinet members and others sit and meet with one another to discuss the details of any — every issue that we — that was raised, and we raised a lot of issues. Seung Kim, Associated Press. Neither. And yes. Yes, I didn’t find him more confrontational or more conciliatory. I found him the way he’s always been: direct and straightforward. And do I think he’s willing to compromise on various issues? Yes. I think he understands that — look, I think — how can I say this tactfully? I think the — I think the election held in the United States was — still leaves a little bit uncertain — has sent a very strong message around the world that the United States is ready to play. The United States is — the Republicans who survived ,and along with the Democrats, are of the view that we’re going to stay fully engaged in the world and that we, in fact, know what we’re about. And so I don’t get any sense that there’s more or less confrontation. We were very blunt with one another about places where we disagreed or where we were uncertain of each other’s position. And we agreed we’d set up — and we did — mechanisms whereby we would meet in detail with our — the key people in each of our administrations to discuss how we could resolve them, or how, if they weren’t resolved, on what basis were they not resolved. Sebastian Smith, the Asso- — the AFP. It’s truly close. First of all, it was a significant, significant victory for Ukraine. A significant victory. And I can do nothing but applaud the courage, determination, and capacity of the Ukrainian people and Ukrainian military. I mean, they have really been amazing. And I think it’s hard to tell at this point exactly what it means in terms of — but I’ve been very clear that we’re going to continue to provide the capability for the Ukrainian people to defend themselves. And we are not going to engage in any negotiation. There’s no — nothing about Ukraine without Ukraine. This is a decision Ukraine has to make. I think you’re going to see things slow down a bit because of the winter months and the inability to move as — as easily around the country. But I think it remains to be seen exactly what the outcome will be, except that I’m confident that Russia will not occupy or defend Ukraine as they intended from the beginning. Um — uh, I’m having trouble reading this. Reuters, Natandya Bose. Well, first of all, it’s difficult to say that I am certain that — that China can control North Korea, number one. Number two, I’ve made it clear to President Xi Jinping that I thought they had an obligation to attempt to make it clear to North Korea that they should not engage in long-range nuclear tests. And I made it clear as well that if they did — “they” meaning North Korea — that we would have to take certain actions that would be more defensive on our behalf, and it would not be directed against North Korea — I mean — excuse me — it would not be directed against China, but it would be to send a clear message to North Korea. We are going to defend our allies, as well as American soil and American capacity. And so — but I do not think that — it’s difficult to determine whether or not China has the capacity. I’m confident China is not looking for North Korea to engage in further escalatory means. Because I made it clear — and I made it clear from the very beginning, and last year as well, that we will do what it needs to defend our capacity, to defend ourselves and our allies — South Korea, as well as Japan — and that it would be — we’d be more up in the face of China. But it wouldn’t be because of China, it’d be because of what was going on in North Korea. So — and, again, on a number of these issues, we have put together teams where our National Security Advisor, Secretary of Defense, and others are going to be engaging with their counterparts in China to see — And we’re not going to be able to work everything out. I’m not suggesting it’s going — this is kumbaya, you know, everybody is going go away with everything in agreement. But I do not believe there’s a need for concern of a, as one of you raised the legitimate question, a new Cold War. And I think that — I’ll conclude by saying it this way: I want to be clear, and be clear with all leaders, but particularly with Xi Jinping, that I mean what I say and I say what I mean, so there’s no misunderstanding. That’s the biggest concern is — I have is a misunderstanding about intentions or actions on each of our parts. So we wanted to — I’ll look at my team — how long did that meeting last? Three and a half hours. So we covered an awful lot of territory. And — and I must say that he was as straightforward as he has been with me in the past. And I — I think that we understand one another, which is the most important thing that can be done. I guess all of you are going swimming from here. It’s not far. But — 
It’s wonderful that we gather with all of you again. This is my third U.S.-ASEAN Summit of my presidency. And I was honored to host the White Hou- — at the White House in May. And now that we’re back together here in Cambodia, I look forward to building even stronger progress than we’ve already made. And I want to thank the Prime Minister of — for Colombia’s leadership in the ASEAN — as ASEAN chair and for hosting all of us. And — and also, I want to recognize that we’re going to be in — all the work that Indonesia is doing this year. Mr. President, thank you very much and — as the Country Coordinator — Coordinator for the United States. And, in fact, this is, as I said, my third trip — my third summit — second in person. And it’s a testament to the importance that the United States places on our relationship with ASEAN and our commitment to ASEAN centrality. ASEAN is the heart of my administration’s Indo-Pacific Strategy, and we continue to strengthen our commitment to work in lockstep with an empowered, unified ASEAN. Today, we take another critical step: beginning a new era in our cooperation with the launch of the U.S.-ASEAN Comprehensive Strategic Partnership. Together, we will tackle the biggest issues of our time, from climate change to health security; defend against the significant threats of rules-based order — to rules-based order and to the — threats to the rule of law; and to build an Indo-Pacific that is free and open, stable and prosperous, resilient and secure. And we’re putting real resources behind our approach, not just rhetoric. Over the last year, my administration has announced more than $250 million in new initiatives with ASEAN. And for 2023, I’ve requested $ 850 million in assistance for Southeast Asia. We’re continuing to build on that progress, following through on our commitments and launching concrete new initiatives that further strengthen ASEAN and increase — increase connectivity across Southeast Asia. Though — through our new U.S.-ASEAN Electric Vehicle Infrastructure Initiative, we’re going to work together to develop an integrated, electric vehicle ecosystem in — in Southeast Asia, enabling the region to pursue clean-energy economic development and ambitious emissions reductions targets. Similarly, we’re launching a U.S.-ASEAN Platform for Infrastructure and Connectivity to bring the benefits of the Partnership for Global Infrastructure and Investment to the ASEAN countries. Through this platform, we’ll develop projects together, based on the needs you identify, to create sustainable, high-standard infrastructure that supports the people of the region. We will build a better future — the better future we all say we want to see and we’re going to see for all but — all one billion people in our countries. We’ll also discuss Russia’s brutal war against Ukraine and our efforts to address the war’s global impacts, including in Southeast Asia. So, I look forward — I look forward to continuing our work together with the ASEAN and with each one of you to deepen peace and prosperity throughout the region, to resolve challenges from the South China Sea to Myanmar, and to find innovative new solutions to shared challenges. Thank you again for the 45 years of partnership between ASEAN and the United States, and for all that we can accomplish together. Thank you.
Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you, thank you, thank you. Friends, partners, Speaker Pelosi, members of Congress who’ve traveled here to represent the United States, and fellow leaders: It’s an honor — it’s an honor to once again participate in this critical summit. And I’d like to thank our host, President Sisi, for bringing us together at this pivotal moment. Thank you, Mr. President. Let me start by acknowledging that this day is a day of commemoration at home, in the United States. It’s Veterans Day. America’s veterans and their families, survivors, and caregivers are — they’re a spine and soul of the United States. And on this special day, every day, I honor all those who’ve sacrificed for our nation, like my son. I want to thank — I want to thank one proud American veteran, a life-long public servant and dear friend, and, literally, one of the most decorated men to fight, Special Envoy for Climate, John Kerry. John. John, your commitment, your passion, your diplomatic expertise have been absolutely critical — absolutely critical to delivering incredible progress on climate issues over the past two years. And I thank you, pal. I thank you for being my friend. Here in Egypt, the Great Pyramids and the ancient artifacts stand as testament to millennia of human ingenuity. We see our mission to avert climate catastrophe and seize a new clean energy economy not only as an imperative for our present and future, but through the eyes of history. According to the World — the World Meteorological Organization, the past eight years have been the warmest on record. The United States — in the United States, we’re seeing historic drought and wildfires in the West, devastating hurricanes and storms in the East. Here in Africa — here in Africa, home to many nations considered most vulnerable to climate change, food insecurity hunger follows four years of intense drought in the Horn of Africa. Meanwhile, the Niger River in West Africa, swollen — swollen because of more intense rainfall, is wreaking havoc on fishing and farming communities. In Nigeria, flooding has recently killed 600 people; 1.3 million more are displaced. Seasonal livestock migration routes have been used for hundreds of years are being altered, increasing the risk of conflict between herders and local farming communities. The climate crisis is about human security, economic security, environmental security, national security, and the very life of the planet. So today, I’d like to share with you how the United States is meeting the climate crisis with urgency and with determination to ensure a cleaner, safer, and healthier planet for all of us. From my first days in office, my administration has led with a bold agenda to address the climate crisis and increase energy security at home and around the world. We immediately rejoined the Paris Agreement. We convened major climate summits and reestablished — — I apologize we ever pulled out of the agreement — we established Major Economi- — Major Economies Forum to spur countries around the world to raise — raise their climate ambitions. Last year, at COP26 in Glasgow, the United States helped deliver critical commitments that will get two thirds of the world’s GDP on track to limit warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius. Over the past two years, the United States has delivered unprecedented progress at home. Through a generational investment in upgrading our nation’s infrastructure, we’re making our power grid better able to transmit clean energy, expanding public traf- — transit and rail, building a nationwide network of electric vehicle charging stations — over 50,000. And this summer, the United States Congress passed and I signed into law my proposal for the biggest, most important climate bill in the history of our country — the Inflation Reduction Act. It includes less than I asked for, but a significant amount: $368 billion to support clean electric en- — clean electri- — electricity, everything from onshore wi- — offshore wind to — to distributed solar, zero-emission vehicles, and sustainable aviation fuels; more efficient electrified buildings; cleaner industrial processes and manufacturing; climate-smart agriculture and forestry; and more. Look, our Department of Energy estimates that the new law will reduce emissions in the United States by about 1 billion tons in 2030 while unleashing a new era of clean-energy-powered economic growth. Our investments in technology, from electric batteries to hydrogen, are going to spark a cycle of innovation that will reduce the cost and improve the performance of clean energy technology that will be available to nations worldwide, not just the United States. We’re going to help — it’ll help make the transition to a low-carbon future more affordable for everyone, accelerate decarbonation beyond our borders. In fact, the International Energy Agency recently concluded that our significant climate investment will, quote, help turbo-charge the emer- — the ener- — the — excuse me — “turbo-charge the emerging global clean energy — clean energy economy.” I was reading their quote, sorry. It’s going to shift the paradigm for the United States and the entire world. It al- — we also ratified the Kigali Amendment to rally the world in phasing down the production and consumption of HFCs, greenhouse gases — — that are thousands of times more damaging than carbon dioxide. And just yesterday, the United States became the first government to require that our fed- — our major federal suppliers disclose their emissions and climate risks and set targets for themselves that are aligned with the Paris Agreement. As the world’s largest customer, with more than $650 billion in spending last year, the United States government is putting our money where our mouth is to strengthen accountability for climate risk and resilience. These critical steps are already locking in vital investments in our infrastructure — delivering lower cost for clean energy, spurring good-paying union jobs for American workers, and advancing environmental justice in our communities. Folks, we are proving that good climate policy is good economic policy. It’s a strong foundation for durable, resilient, inclusive economic growth. It’s driving progress in the private sector. It’s driving progress around the world. And the sum total of the actions my administration is taking puts the United States on track to achieve our Paris Agreement goal of reducing emissions 50 to 52 percent below ’25 levels by — 2005 levels by 2030. Let me just take a moment to emphasize how meaningful it is that I can say that. I introduced the first piece of climate legislation in the United States Senate way back in 1986, 36 years ago. My commitment to this issue has been unwavering. And today, finally, thanks to the actions we’ve taken, I can stand here as President of the United States of America and say with confidence: The United States of America will meet our emissions targets by 2030. We are racing forward to do our part to avert the “climate hell” that the U.N. Secretary-General so passionately warned about earlier this week. We’re not ignoring the harbingers that are already here. It’s true so many disasters — the climate crisis is hitting hardest those countries and communities that have the fewest resources to respond and to recover. That’s why, last year, I committed to work with our Congress to quadruple U.S. support to climate finance and provide $11 billion annually by 2024, including $3 billion for adaption . And that’s why the fund — Emergency Plan for Adaptation and Resilience — PREPARE, we call it — to help more than half a billion people in developing countries respond to climate change . We’ve already requested more than $2 billion for the PREPARE this year. I am going to fight to see that this and our other climate objectives are fully funded. Today, as a down payment, we’re announcing more than $150 million in initiatives that specifically support PREPARE’s adaptation efforts throughout Africa, including Adaptation in Africa effort that Egypt and the United States launched together in June. This includes support for expanding early warning systems to help cover Africa, broadening access to climate finance, providing disaster-risk protection, strengthening food security, mobilizing the private sector, and supporting a new training center in Egypt to accelerate adaptation across the efforts all across the continent. My administra- — — My administration has also made the United States the first-ever contributor to the Adaptation Fund last year, and this year we’re doubling our pledge to bringing our total commitment to $100 million. We’re making sure that every dollar we deliver goes as far as possible, unliking lar- — unlocking larger pools of finance and the trillions in private investment we know that will be needed. Folks, we’re also supporting the Global Shield, a G7 initiative to better protect vulnerable countries everywhere from climate-related losses and quickly respond to climate-related damages. And the G7-led Partnership for Global Infrastructure and Investment is working to meet the critical infrastructure needs in low- and middle-income countries with specific focus on climate. The project we’re facilitating is built on transparency, partnership, the protections for workers and the environment. One of the many projects already underway is a partnership between American firms and the government of Angola to invest $2 billion building new solar projects in Angola. And everywhere — and eve- — like everywhere in the world, climate adaptation in Africa is working toward an energy transition that is just. It means creating good jobs, spurring inclusive economic growth, and leaving no one behind as we implement the Sustainable Development Goals. Folks, now I know this has been a difficult few years. The interconnected challenges we face can feel all-consuming. And the upheaval we’re seeing around the world, especially Russia’s brutal attack against Ukraine, is exacerbating food shortages and energy spikes in cost, increasing volatility in those energy markets, driving up global inflation. Against this backdrop, it’s more urgent than ever that we double-down on our climate commitments. Russia’s war only enhances the urgency of the need to transition the world off its dependence on fossil fuels. True energy security means every nation — it means that every nation is benefiting from a clean, diversified energy future. No action — no action can be taken without a nation understanding that it can use energy as a weapon and hold the global economy hostage. It must stop. And so this gathering must be the moment to recommit our future and to our shared capacity to write a better story for the world. Let’s build on our global climate progress, raising above our ambitions and the speed of our efforts. The science is devastatingly clear. We have to make vital progress by the end of this decade. And that’s why the United States is rallying the world around climate game-changers. I launched one such game-changer last year with the European Commission President Von der Leyen: the Global Methane Pledge. We started it with the EU and eight other countries. In Glasgow, it grew to more than 100 countries. Now more than 130 countries have signed on to covering more than half of the global methane emissions. Methane is 80 times more potent than carbon, and it accounts for nearly half — half of the net warming we’re experiencing now. So cutting methane by at least 30 percent by 2030 can be our best chance to keep within reach of 1.5 degrees Celsius target. And today, we’re releasing an updated Methane Emissions Reduction Act Plan, which lays out how the United States is meeting the pledge. We’re investing more than $20 billion in domestic methane mitigation to do things like cap orphan wells leaking methane, improving industrial equipment in the oil and gas sectors to reduce emissions. It also lays out strong regulatory actions, including — including a new proposal from our Environmental Protection Agency to strengthen standards on methane across sectors, especially from super-emitters, to make — just to make sure it’s not released into communities, impacting our public health. All told, these steps — all told, these steps will reduce U.S. meth- — U.S. methane emissions from covered sources by 87 percent below the levels of 2005 by 2030. Folks, another game-changer is conserving our natural environment. Whether it’s the Congo Basin forests and peatlands here in Africa or the Amazon Basin in South America, or forests, wetlands, and grasslands in the United States, preserving nature is one of the most impactful climate solutions we have — some that Indigenous people, who have — communities have known and been the stewards of these efforts for a long time and generations. They’ve known it. Here at COP27, we are co-chairing Forests and Climate Partnership to deliver real, rapid strides to halt deforestation. The best part is we don’t have to develop any new technologies. We just have to make clear forests are more valuable when they’re preserved than when they’re destroyed. It’s that basic. And those who are able should be chipping in to help those countries that, in fact, preserve those great forests. We’re bringing together partners across the public and private sector and philanthropic sectors to put health — healthy ecosystems at the heart of healthy economies. This is — it’s going to take all of us. It’s going to take all of us. We need to harness our capacity to tackle emissions in economic sectors like international shipping. If the shipping sector were a standalone economy — if it were a standalone economy, it would rank as the tenth largest emitter in the world. So, together with Norway, the United States has launched the Green Shipping Challenge. During this COP, we’ve seen dozens of commitments from governments, as well as ports and private companies, to facilitate green shipping corridors and align the sector with the 1.5-degree goal. If we can accelerate action on these game-changers, we can reach our goal, we can keep it within reach as well. But to permanently bend the emissions curve, every nation has — needs to step up. At this gathering, we must renew and raise our climate ambitions. The United States is acting. Everyone has to act. That’s the duty and responsibility of global leadership. Countries that are in a position to help should be supporting developing countries so they can make decisive climate decisions, facilitating their energy transitions, building a path to prosperity and compatible with our climate imperative. If countries can finance coal in developing countries, there is no reason why we can’t finance clean energy in developing companies . And I’m pleased to announce today, alongside the European Union and Germany, a $500 million package to finance and facilitate Egypt’s transition to clean energy. This package will enable Egypt to deploy 10 gigawatts of renewable energy by 2030, while bringing offline 5 gigawatts of inefficient gas-powered facilities, reducing emissions in Egypt and power sector by 10 percent. We also — we’ll also work with Egypt to capture nearly 14 billion cubic meters of natural gas, which Egypt currently flares, vents, or leaks from its oil and gas operations. And because of this cooperation, Egypt is elevating its climate ambition and submitting an enhanced national determined contribution. If we’re going to win this fight, every major emitter nation needs align with the 1.5 degrees. We can no longer plead ignorance to the consequences of our actions or continue to repeat our mistakes. Everyone has to keep accelerating our efforts throughout this decisive decade. My friends, I came to the presidency determined to be tran- — make the transforforma- — transformational changes that are needed — that America needs to make and we have to do for the rest of the world to overcome decades of opposition and obstacles of progress on this issue alone; to reestablish the United States as a trustworthy, committed, global leader on climate. As I stand here before you, we’ve taken enormous strides to achieve that. But I don’t stand here alone. This progress is being driven by young people all across America. Like young people around the world, they feel the urgency of climate, and they feel it deeply. They’re committed to these issues. They know the stakes, and that’s their world we’re creating. This is not to stand by and allow us to fail in their — in this responsibility. We can’t. That’s why, as I look out, of all the things that I’ve — we’ve accomplished, with so much more to do, I’m optimistic. For all the work that remains to be done, we have to put down significant markers of progress. The United States has taken enduring steps to meet our goals. We’re delivering on our promise of leadership, and more and more of the world is standing with us. Though determined diplomacy is necessary, we’re finding consensus, building and understanding and launching new approaches. And the inspiring passion of young people, civil society, climate activists, Indigenous communities is literally galvanizing the world. Yes, the challenges we face are great, but our capacity is greater than the challenges. We must never doubt that. So let’s reach out and take the future in our hands and make the world we wish to see and that we know we need — a planet preserved for generations to come; an economy powered by clean, diversified, secure energy sources; opportunities unlocked through innovation and cooperation that deliver equitable, more prosperous, and more stable, and more just world for our children. That’s why we’re here. That is what we’re working toward. And we can do it together. I am confident. Thank you, thank you, thank you. And may God bless you all. 5:47 P.M. EET
Well, I thought we’d give you a break, but they haven’t let in — haven’t let up at all. Thank you so very much. Folks, I think this has been — we’ve been looking forward to this for a long time. And it’s wonderful to welcome you all for the first time together, leaders of the Pacific Islands, in Washington. You know, this summit honors the deep history that our nations share and a longstanding trade and diplomatic relationships, and a — and a shared fight to defend freedom. And the sacrifices we made together, the partnerships between our — among our peoples helped bring an end to the bloody war in the Pacific during World War Two. And recently, we honored the 80th anniversary of the Battle of Guadalcanal at a memorial in the Solomon Islands. And — and today, security in the Pacific and for the Pacific Islanders remains as critical as ever to us and I hope to you as well. To secure — the security of America, quite frankly, and the world depends on your security and the security of the Pacific Islands. And I really mean that. So, this summit is also about deepening our enduring commitment to each other and our shared future; our commitment to tackling the climate crisis, which threatens all of us. We’re seeing the consequences of climate change around the world very vividly, including in the United States right now. And — and I know your nations feel it acutely. And for you all, it’s an existential threat. It’s an existential threat. And we’re also committed to working together to equitably rebuild the global economy in the wake of COVID-19 and Russia’s war — you know, to ensure an Indo-Pacific region that’s free and open, one that is stable and prosperous, and resilient and secure. A great deal of the history of our world is going to be written in the Indo-Pacific over the coming years and decades. And the Pacific Islands are a critical voice in shaping that future. And that’s why my administration has made it a priority to strengthen our partnership with your countries and with the Pacific Islands Forum. I was honored to be the first U.S. President to address the forum last year. And Vice President Harris shared our vision for cooperation with the Pacific Islands Forum at — at your leaders meeting. This year, we also launched the Partners in the Blue Pacific initiative — kind of poetic, isn’t it? — the Partners in the Blue Pacific — but it’s an initiative we really care about — to more effectively coordinate with our allies and partners around the world to better meet the needs of the people across the Pacific. That’s why this historic summit — at this historic summit we’re making additional and concrete commitments. And we’re launching our Pacific Partnership Strategy, the first national U.S. strategy for Pacific Islands, which is a key component to our broader Indo-Pac- — Indo-Pacific strategy. We’re also announcing more than $110 million in expended U.S. programs to improve the lives of Pacific Islanders, which includes more than $130 million in new investments to support climate resilience and to build sustainable blue economies in the Pacific Islands; prepare for climate impacts on public health and food security, and to strengthen sustainable development; and also to build a better early warning capacity to predict, prepare for, and respond to climate hazards. This is going to build on approximately $375 million in climate programs we currently have in the region. We’re also taking several important diplomatic steps. And I’m proud to announce that, following appropriate consultations, we will recognize the Cook Islands and Niue as sovereign states. And we look forward to successfully concluding negotiations for a Compact of Free Association with three of our closest partners in the region — the Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and the Republic of Palau. The United States is committed to consulting with all of you and engaging collaboratively at every turn, because it’s very much in our interest as well as, I hope, yours. That’s what this summit is all about. And with your permission, I’d also like to briefly address the shameless and transparent effort by Russia to annex parts of its neighbor, Ukraine. The United States — I want to be very clear about this: The United States will never, never, never recognize Russia’s claims on Ukraine sovereign territory. This so-called referenda was a sham — an absolute sham — and the results were manufactured in Moscow. And the — the true will of the Ukrainian people is evident every day as they sacrifice their lives to save their people and maintain the independence of their country and in defense of freedom as well. Russia’s assault on Ukraine in pursuit of Putin’s imperial ambitions is a flagrant — a flagrant violation of the U.N. Charter and the basic principles of sovereignty and territorial integrity. I’m grateful to the Pacific Island leaders for standing up for these basic principles and for your strong, moral leadership on global issues at the United Nations. I’m looking forward to hearing from all of you. And I’m even looking forward to — even more looking forward to hosting you at my — the White House tonight for dinner. I don’t know what’s on the menu yet, but I hope it’s good. But all kidding aside, I’m looking forward to seeing you tonight. And I’m going to turn it over to Secretary Blinken.
Thank you. Mr. President, Mr. Secretary-General, my fellow leaders, in the last year, our world has experienced great upheaval: a growing crisis in food insecurity; record heat, floods, and droughts; COVID-19; inflation; and a brutal, needless war — a war chosen by one man, to be very blunt. Let us speak plainly. A permanent member of the United Nations Security Council invaded its neighbor, attempted to erase a sovereign state from the map. Russia has shamelessly violated the core tenets of the United Nations Charter — no more important than the clear prohibition against countries taking the territory of their neighbor by force. Again, just today, President Putin has made overt nuclear threats against Europe and a reckless disregard for the responsibilities of the non-proliferation regime. Now Russia is calling — calling up more soldiers to join the fight. And the Kremlin is organizing a sham referenda to try to annex parts of Ukraine, an extremely significant violation of the U.N. Charter. This world should see these outrageous acts for what they are. Putin claims he had to act because Russia was threatened. But no one threatened Russia, and no one other than Russia sought conflict. In fact, we warned it was coming. And with many of you, we worked to try to avert it. Putin’s own words make his true purpose unmistakable. Just before he invaded, Putin asserted — and I quote — Ukraine was “created by Russia” and never had, quote, “real statehood.” And now we see attacks on schools, railway stations, hospitals, wa- — on centers of Ukrainian history and culture. In the past, even more horrifying evidence of Russia’s atrocity and war crimes: mass graves uncovered in Izyum; bodies, according to those that excavated those bodies, showing signs of torture. This war is about extinguishing Ukraine’s right to exist as a state, plain and simple, and Ukraine’s right to exist as a people. Whoever you are, wherever you live, whatever you believe, that should not — that should make your blood run cold. That’s why 141 nations in the General Assembly came together to unequivocally condemn Russia’s war against Ukraine. The United States has marshaled massive levels of security assistance and humanitarian aid and direct economic support for Ukraine — more than $25 billion to date. Our allies and partners around the world have stepped up as well. And today, more than 40 countries represented in here have contributed billions of their own money and equipment to help Ukraine defend itself. The United States is also working closely with our allies and partners to impose costs on Russia, to deter attacks against NATO territory, to hold Russia accountable for the atrocities and war crimes. Because if nations can pursue their imperial ambitions without consequences, then we put at risk everything this very institution stands for. Everything. Every victory won on the battlefield belongs to the courageous Ukrainian soldiers. But this past year, the world was tested as well, and we did not hesitate. We chose liberty. We chose sovereignty. We chose principles to which every party to the United Nations Charter is beholding. We stood with Ukraine. Like you, the United States wants this war to end on just terms, on terms we all signed up for: that you cannot seize a nation’s territory by force. The only country standing in the way of that is Russia. So, we — each of us in this body who is determined to uphold the principles and beliefs we pledge to defend as members of the United Nations — must be clear, firm, and unwavering in our resolve. Ukraine has the same rights that belong to every sovereign nation. We will stand in solidarity with Ukraine. We will stand in solidarity against Russia’s aggression. Period. Now, it’s no secret that in the contest between democracy and autocracy, the United States — and I, as President — champion a vision for our world that is grounded in the values of democracy. The United States is determined to defend and strengthen democracy at home and around the world. Because I believe democracy remains humanity’s greatest instrument to address the challenges of our time. We’re working with the G7 and likeminded countries to prove democracies can deliver for their citizens but also deliver for the rest of the world as well. But as we meet today, the U.N. Charter — the U.N. Charter’s very basis of a stable and just rule-based order is under attack by those who wish to tear it down or distort it for their own political advantage. And the United Nations Charter was not only signed by democracies of the world, it was negotiated among citizens of dozens of nations with vastly different histories and ideologies, united in their commitment to work for peace. As President Truman said in 1945, the U.N. Charter — and I quote — is “proof that nations, like men, can state their differences, can face them, and then can find common ground on which to stand.” End of quote. That common ground was so straightforward, so basic that, today, 193 of you — 193 member states — have willingly embraced its principles. And standing up for those principles for the U.N. Charter is the job of every responsible member state. I reject the use of violence and war to conquer nations or expand borders through bloodshed. To stand against global politics of fear and coercion; to defend the sovereign rights of smaller nations as equal to those of larger ones; to embrace basic principles like freedom of navigation, respect for international law, and arms control — no matter what else we may disagree on, that is the common ground upon which we must stand. If you’re still committed to a strong foundation for the good of every nation around the world, then the United States wants to work with you. I also believe the time has come for this institution to become more inclusive so that it can better respond to the needs of today’s world. Members of the U.N. Security Council, including the United States, should consistently uphold and defend the U.N. Charter and refrain — refrain from the use of the veto, except in rare, extraordinary situations, to ensure that the Council remains credible and effective. That is also why the United States supports increasing the number of both permanent and non-permanent representatives of the Council. This includes permanent seats for those nations we’ve long supported and permanent seats for countries in Africa Latin America and the Caribbean. The United States is committed to this vital work. In every region, we pursued new, constructive ways to work with partners to advance shared interests, from elevating the Quad in the Indo-Pacific; to signing the Los Angeles Declaration of Migration and Protection at the Summit of the Americas; to joining a historic meeting of nine Arab leaders to work toward a more peaceful, integrated Middle East; to hosting the U.S.-Africa Leaders’ Summit in — this December. As I said last year, the United States is opening an era of relentless diplomacy to address the challenges that matter most to people’s lives — all people’s lives: tackling the climate crisis, as the previous spoker — speaker spoke to; strengthening global health security; feeding the world — feeding the world. We made that priority. And one year later, we’re keeping that promise. From the day I came to office, we’ve led with a bold climate agenda. We rejoined the Paris Agreement, convened major climate summits, helped deliver critical agreements on COP26. And we helped get two thirds of the world GDP on track to limit warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius. And now I’ve signed a historic piece of legislation here in the United States that includes the biggest, most important climate commitment we have ever made in the history of our country: $369 billion toward climate change. That includes tens of billions in new investments in offshore wind and solar, doubling down on zero emission vehicles, increasing energy efficiency, supporting clean manufacturing. Our Department of Energy estimates that this new law will reduce U.S. emissions by one gigaton a year by 2030 while unleashing a new era of clean-energy-powered economic growth. Our investments will also help reduce the cost of developing clean energy technologies worldwide, not just the United States. This is a global gamechanger — and none too soon. We don’t have much time. We all know we’re already living in a climate crisis. No one seems to doubt it after this past year. We meet — we meet — much of Pas- — as we meet, much of Pakistan is still underwater; it needs help. Meanwhile, the Horn of Africa faces unprecedented drought. Families are facing impossible choices, choosing which child to feed and wondering whether they’ll survive. This is the human cost of climate change. And it’s growing, not lessening. So, as I announced last year, to meet our global responsibility, my administration is working with our Congress to deliver more than $11 billion a year to international climate finance to help lower-income countries implement their climate goals and ensure a just energy transition. The key part of that will be our PEPFAR plan, which will help half a billion people, and especially vulnerable countries, adapt to the impacts of climate change and build resilience. This need is enormous. So let this be the moment we find within ourselves the will to turn back the tide of climate demastation — devastation and unlock a resilient, sustainable, clean energy economy to preserve our planet. On global health, we’ve delivered more than 620 million doses of COVID-19 vaccine to 116 countries around the world, with more available to help meet countries’ needs — all free of charge, no strings attached. And we’re working closely with the G20 and other countries. And the United States helped lead the change to establish a groundbreaking new Fund for Pandemic Prevention, Preparedness, and Response at the World Bank. At the same time, we’ve continued to advance the ball on enduring global health challenges. Later today, I’ll host the Seventh Replenishment Conference for the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria. With bipartisan support in our Congress, I have pledged to contribute up to $6 billion to that effort. So I look forward to welcoming a historic round of pledges at the conference resulting in one of the largest global health fundraisers ever held in all of history. We’re also taking on the food crisis head on. With as many as 193 million people around the world experiencing acute — acute food insecurity — a jump of 40 million in a year — today I’m announcing another $2.9 billion in U.S. support for lifesaving humanitarian and food security assistance for this year alone. Russia, in the meantime, is pumping out lies, trying to pin the blame for the crisis — the food crisis — onto sanctions imposed by many in the world for the aggression against Ukraine. So let me be perfectly clear about something: Our sanctions explicitly allow — explicitly allow Russia the ability to export food and fertilizer. No limitation. It’s Russia’s war that is worsening food insecurity, and only Russia can end it. I’m grateful for the work here at the U.N. — including your leadership, Mr. Secretary-General — establishing a mechanism to export grain from Black Sea ports in Ukraine that Russia had blocked for months, and we need to make sure it’s extended. We believe strongly in the need to feed the world. That’s why the United States is the world’s largest supporter of the World Food Programme, with more than 40 percent of its budget. We’re leading support — we’re leading support of the UNICEF efforts to feed children around the world. And to take on the larger challenge of food insecurity, the United States introduced a Call to Action: a roadmap eliminating global food insecurity — to eliminating global food insecurity that more than 100 nation member states have already supported. In June, the G7 announced more than $4.5 billion to strengthen food security around the world. Through USAID’s Feed the Future initiative, the United States is scaling up innovative ways to get drought- and heat-resistant seeds into the hands of farmers who need them, while distributing fertilizer and improving fertilizer efficiency so that farmers can grow more while using less. And we’re calling on all countries to refrain from banning food exports or hoarding grain while so many people are suffering. Because in every country in the world, no matter what else divides us, if parents cannot feed their children, nothing — nothing else matters if parents cannot feed their children. As we look to the future, we’re working with our partners to update and create rules of the road for new challenges we face in the 21st century. We launched the Trade and Technology Council with the European Union to ensure that key technologies — key technologies are developed and governed in the way that benefits everyone. With our partner countries and through the U.N., we’re supporting and strengthening the norms of responsibility — responsible state behavior in cyberspace and working to hold accountable those who use cyberattacks to threaten international peace and security. With partners in the Americas, Africa, Europe, and the Middle East, and the Indo-Pacific, we’re working to build a new economic ecosystem while — where every nation — every nation gets a fair shot and economic growth is resilient, sustainable, and shared. That’s why the United States has championed a global minimum tax. And we will work to see it implemented so major corporations pay their fair share everywhere — everywhere. It’s also been the idea behind the Indo-Pacific Economic Framework, which the United States launched this year with 13 other Indo-Pacific economies. We’re working with our partners in ASEAN and the Pacific Islands to support a vision for a critical Indo-Pacific region that is free and open, connected and prosperous, secure and resilient. Together with partners around the world, we’re working to ser- — secure resilient supply chains that protect everyone from coercion or domination and ensure that no country can use energy as a weapon. And as Russia’s war rolls — riles the global economy, we’re also calling on major global creditors, including the non-Paris Club countries, to transparently negotiate debt forgiveness for lower-income countries to forestall broader economic and political crises around the world. Instead of infrastructure projects that generate huge and large debt without delivering on the promised advantages, let’s meet the enormous infrastructure needs around the world with transparent investments — high-standard projects that protect the rights of workers and the environment — keyed to the needs of the communities they serve, not to the contributor. That’s why the United States, together with fellow G7 partners, launched a Partnership for Global Infrastructure and Investment. We intend to collectively mobilize $600 billion in investment through this partnership by 2027. Dozens of projects are already underway: industrial-scale vaccine manufacturing in Senegal, transformative solar projects in Angola, first-of-its-kind small modular nuclear power plant in Romania. These are investments that are going to deliver returns not just for those countries, but for everyone. The United States will work with every nation, including our competitors, to solve global problems like climate change. Climate diplomacy is not a favor to the United States or any other nation, and walking away hurts the entire world. Let me be direct about the competition between the United States and China. As we manage shifting geopolitical trends, the United States will conduct itself as a reasonable leader. We do not seek conflict. We do not seek a Cold War. We do not ask any nation to choose between the United States or any other partner. But the United States will be unabashed in promoting our vision of a free, open, secure, and prosperous world and what we have to offer communities of nations: investments that are designed not to foster dependency, but to alleviate burdens and help nations become self-sufficient; partnerships not to create political obligation, but because we know our own success — each of our success is increased when other nations succeed as well. When individuals have the chance to live in dignity and develop their talents, everyone benefits. Critical to that is living up to the highest goals of this institution: increasing peace and security for everyone, everywhere. The United States will not waver in our unrelenting determination to counter and thwart the continuing terrorist threats to our world. And we will lead with our diplomacy to strive for peaceful resolution of conflicts. We seek to uphold peace and stability across the Taiwan Straits. We remain committed to our One China policy, which has helped prevent conflict for four decades. And we continue to oppose unilateral changes in the status quo by either side. We support an African Union-led peace process to end the fight in Ethiopia and restore security for all its people. In Venezuela, where years of the political oppression have driven more than 6 million people from that country, we urge a Venezuelan-led dialogue and a return to free and fair elections. We continue to stand with our neighbor in Haiti as it faces political-fueled gang violence and an enormous human crisis. And we call on the world to do the same. We have more to do. We’ll continue to back the U.N.-mediated truce in Yemen, which has delivered precious months of peace to people that have suffered years of war. And we will continue to advocate for lasting negotiating peace between the Jewish and democratic state of Israel and the Palestinian people. The United States is committed to Israel’s security, full stop. And a negotiated two-state solution remains, in our view, the best way to ensure Israel’s security and prosperity for the future and give the Palestinians the state which — to which they are entitled — both sides to fully respect the equal rights of their citizens; both people enjoying equal measure of freedom and dignity. Let me also urge every nation to recommit to strengthening the nuclear non-proliferation regime through diplomacy. No matter what else is happening in the world, the United States is ready to pursue critical arms control measures. A nuclear war cannot be won and must never be fought. The five permanent members of the Security Council just reaffirmed that commitment in January. But today, we’re seeing disturbing trends. Russia shunned the Non-Proliferati- — -Proliferation ideals embraced by every other nation at the 10th NPT Review Conference. And again, today, as I said, they’re making irresponsible nuclear threats to use nuclear weapons. China is conducting an unprecedented, concerning nuclear buildup without any transparency. Despite our efforts to begin serious and sustained diplomacy, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea continues to blatantly violate U.N. sanctions. And while the United States is prepared for a mutual return to the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action if Iran steps up to its obligations, the United States is clear: We will not allow Iran to acquire a nuclear weapon. I continue to believe that diplomacy is the best way to achieve this outcome. The nonproliferation regime is one of the greatest successes of this institution. We cannot let the world now slide backwards, nor can we turn a blind eye to the erosion of human rights. Perhaps singular among this body’s achievements stands the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which is the standard by which our forebears challenged us to measure ourselves. They made clear in 1948: Human rights are the basis for all that we seek to achieve. And yet today, in 2022, fundamental freedoms are at risk in every part of our world, from the violations of — in Xinjiang detailed in recent reports by the Office of U.N. — U.S. — reports detailing by the U.S. High Commissioner, to the horrible abuses against pro-democracy activists and ethnic minorities by the military regime in Burma, to the increased repression of women and girls by the Taliban in Afghanistan. And today, we stand with the brave citizens and the brave women of Iran who right now are demonstrating to secure their basic rights. But here’s what I know: The future will be won by those countries that unleash the full potential of their populations, where women and girls can exercise equal rights, including basic reproductive rights, and contribute fully to building a stronger economies and more resilient societies; where religious and ethnic minorities can live their lives without harassment and contribute to the fabric of their communities; where the LGBTQ+ community individuals live and love freely without being targeted with violence; where citizens can question and criticize their leaders without fear of reprisal. The United States will always promote human rights and the values enshrined in the U.N. Charter in our own country and around the world. Let me end with this: This institution, guided by the U.N. Charter and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, is at its core an act of dauntless hope. Let me say that again: It’s an act of dauntless hope. Think about the vision of those first delegates who undertook a seemingly impossible task while the world was still smoldering. Think about how divided the people of the world must have felt with the fresh grief of millions dead, the genocidal horrors of the Holocaust exposed. They had every right to believe only the worst of humanity. Instead, they reached for what was best in all of us, and they strove to build something better: enduring peace; comity among nations; equal rights for every member of the human family; cooperation for the advancement of all humankind. My fellow leaders, the challenges we face today are great indeed, but our capacity is greater. Our commitment must be greater still. So let’s stand together to again declare the unmistakable resolve that nations of the world are united still, that we stand for the values of the U.N. Charter, that we still believe by working together we can bend the arc of history toward a freer and more just world for all our children, although none of us have fully achieved it. We’re not passive witnesses to history; we are the authors of history. We can do this — we have to do it — for ourselves and for our future, for humankind. Thank you for your tolerance, for listening to me. I appreciate it very much. God bless you all.
Thank you, thank you, thank you. Please. It’s never played that long. Well, thank you all very much, and good afternoon. Vice President Harris and First Gentleman — well, actually the Second Gentleman, but you’re really my first gentleman. And ambassadors, members of Congress — thank you all for being here today. I think it’s a pretty big day. Just a few months ago, I welcomed — I welcomed President Niinistö of Finland and the Prime Minister Andersson of Sweden to the White House to demonstrate the strong support the United States had for Finland and Sweden’s decision to apply for membership in NATO. And two proud and independent countries, each with a long tradition — a long tradition of non-alignment, exercising their sovereign right to make their own decisions about their security. And responding to the will of their citizens, following their democratic processes they have, choosing to join NATO. It was and is a watershed moment, I believe, in the Alliance and for the greater security and stability not only of Europe and the United States, but of the world. And today we take another important step toward bringing Sweden and Finland into NATO. In just a few minutes, I’m going to sign the U.S. Instrument of Ratification, making the United States the 23rd Ally to approve Sweden and Finland’s membership to the strongest, most powerful defensive alliance in the history of the world. I’ve just gotten off the phone with both the President and the Prime Minister — they send their best — — and to offer my congratulations on the enormous progress thus far. Together, we committed that the United States, Finland, and Sweden would continue to remain vigilant against any threats to our shared security and deter any confrontation and confront any aggression or threat of aggression that might come up. And I urge the remaining Allies to complete their own ratification progress as quickly as possible. For more than seven decades, a strong, united NATO has been the foundation of Americans’ security — not just in Europe but, quite frankly, the basis of our security around the world. It’s how we’ve led the world together with those nations that share our vision and, even more importantly, our values. It’s critical now to deter threats before they harm our people, our Allies, and our interests. You know, it’s how we address instability and aggression, with Allies at our side, amplifying — amplifying the capacity to respond effectively. Sweden and Finji- — and Sweden and Finland have strong democratic institutions, strong militaries, and strong and transparent economies. They’ll meet every NATO requim- — requirement; we’re confident of that. And we will make — and make our Alliance stronger, and it will make America and the American people safer in the process. That’s why the United States Senate gave their advice and consent to Sweden and Finland’s membership with overwhelming support: 95 votes in favor, near — a near-record pace. This year, we’re celebrating significant bipartisan steps that are going to make our country stronger and enhance our ability to lead the world. We’re showing the world the United States of America can still do big things. This nearly unanimous bipartisan ratifi- — ra- — ratification sends another important message: The United States is committed — the United States is committed to the transatlantic alliance. Together with our Allies and partners, we’re going to write the future we want to see — the future we want to see. And in a moment when Putin’s Russia has shattered peace and security in Europe, when autocrats are challenging the very foundations of a rule-based order, the strength of the transatlantic alliance and America’s commitment to NATO is more important than it has ever been. That’s why, in June, in Madrid, at a pivotal NATO Summit, all 30 nations came together to invite Finland and Sweden to apply. It was a display of Allied unity, Allied strength, and Allied res- — resolve — proof that NATO’s door remains open to countries in Europe that share our values and that meet the high standards of our Alliance. Putin thought he could break us apart. When this all started, he believed he could break us apart, in my view, weaken our resolve. Instead, he’s getting exactly what he did not want. He wanted the Findalization of NATO, but he’s getting the NATOization of Finland — — along with Sweden. I really mean that. In seeking to join NATO, Finland and Sweden are making a sacred commitment that an attack against one is an attack against all. It’s Article 5 of the Washington Treaty and the core — the very core of our Alliance. And our Allies’ committed to Article 5, and it’s stronger than ever — that commitment. The only time in history Article 5 has been invoked was on 9/11, when the United States was attacked and all our Allies rallied to our side. The United States will never forget that, and we will never fail in our pledge to defend every, every, every inch of NATO. That’s why, together with our Allies, we’re taking steps to reinforce NATO’s eastern flank and strengthen our deterrence against any threats of aggression toward the Alliance. You know, and we’re going to be better able to meet the new challenges of a changed European security environment with two strong, reliable, highly capable, new Allies in the High North. You know, NATO was formed out of the wreckage of World War Two, as we all know. Where war — you know, it had — look, just be straight about it: Wars have repeatedly riven a continent, engulfed the world in conflicts, and — and there’s no way to avoid that if we’re not together. NATO laid a new foundation for lasting peace and security. And through more than seven decades that followed, NATO has proved the indispensable Alliance, committed to a Europe whole, free, and at peace. Today, we see all too clearly how NATO remains an indispensable alliance for the world of today and the world of tomorrow. Our Alliance is closer than ever. It is more united than ever. And when Finland and Sweden bring the number of Allies to 32, we’ll be stronger than ever — stronger than ever. And this will benefit all our people — all of our people. Now I’m going to go over to that table over there and sign the U.S. instruments of ratification communicating the support of the United States for Finland and Sweden’s membership in NATO. And thank you all for being here. And I want to ask the ambassadors whether they’re willing to come up and stand with me while I sign it. Okay? Thank you.
My fellow Americans, on Saturday, at my direction, the United States successfully concluded an airstrike in Kabul, Afghanistan, that killed the emir of al Qaeda, Ayman al-Zawahiri. You know, al-Zawahiri was bin Laden’s leader. He was with him all the — the whole time. He was his number-two man, his deputy at the time of the terrorist attack of 9/11. He was deeply involved in the planning of 9/11, one of the most responsible for the attacks that murdered 2,977 people on American soil. For decades, he was a mastermind behind attacks against Americans, including the bombing of the USS Cole in 2000, which killed 17 American sailors and wounded dozens more. He played a key role — a key role in the bombing of U.S. embassies in Kenya and Tanzania, killing 224 and wounding over 4,500 others. He carved a trail of murder and violence against American citizens, American service members, American diplomats, and American interests. And since the United States delivered justice to bin Laden 11 years ago, Zawahiri has been a leader of al Qaeda — the leader. From hiding, he coordinated al Qaeda’s branches and all around the world — including setting priorities, for providing operational guidance that called for and inspired attacks against U.S. targets. He made videos, including in recent weeks, calling for his followers to attack the United States and our allies. Now justice has been delivered, and this terrorist leader is no more. People around the world no longer need to fear the vicious and determined killer. The United States continues to demonstrate our resolve and our capacity to defend the American people against those who seek to do us harm. You know, we — we make it clear again tonight that no matter how long it takes, no matter where you hide, if you are a threat to our people, the United States will find you and take you out. After relentlessly seeking Zawahiri for years under Presidents Bush, Obama, and Trump, our intelligence community located Zawahiri earlier this year. He had moved to downtown Kabul to reunite with members of his immediate family. After carefully considering the clear and convincing evidence of his location, I authorized a precision strike that would remove him from the battlefield once and for all. This mission was carefully planned and rigorously minimized the risk of harm to other civilians. And one week ago, after being advised that the conditions were optimal, I gave the final approval to go get him, and the mission was a success. None of his family members were hurt, and there were no civilian casualties. I’m sharing this news with the American people now, after confirming the mission’s total success through the painstaking work of our counterterrorism community and key allies and partners. My administration has kept congressional leaders informed as well. When I ended our military mission in Afghanistan almost a year ago, I made the decision that after 20 years of war, the United States no longer needed thousands of boots on the ground in Afghanistan to protect America from terrorists who seek to do us harm. And I made a promise to the American people that we’d continue to conduct effective counterterrorism operations in Afghanistan and beyond. We’ve done just that. In February, our forces conducted a daring mission in Syria that eliminated the emir of ISIS. Last month, we took out another key ISIS leader. Now we have eliminated the emir of al Qaeda. He will never again — never again allow Afghanistan to become a terrorist safe haven because he is gone, and we’re going to make sure that nothing else happens. You know, it can’t be a launching pad against the United States. We’re going to see to it that won’t happen. This operation is a clear demonstration that we will, we can, and we’ll always make good on the sol- — solemn pledge. My administration will continue to vigilantly monitor and address threats from al Qaeda, no matter where they emanate from. As Commander-in-Chief, it is my solemn responsibility to make America safe in a dangerous world. The United States did not seek this war against terror. It came to us, and we answered with the same principles and resolve that have shaped us for generation upon generation: to protect the innocent, defend liberty, and we keep the light of freedom burning — a beacon for the rest of the entire world. Because this is the great and defining truth about our nation and our people: We do not break. We never give in. We never back down. Last year, on September 11th, I once more paid my respects to Ground Zero in New York City, at that quiet field in Shanksville, at the Pentagon — and at the Pentagon. Standing at the memorial at Ground Zero, seeing the names of those who died forever etched in bronze, is a powerful reminder of the sacred promise we made as a nation: We will never forget. The memorial also bears a quotation from Virgil: “No day shall erase you from the memory of time.” “No day shall erase you from the memory of time.” So we continue to mourn every innocent life that was stolen on 9/11 and honor their memories. To the families who lost fathers and mothers, husbands and wives, sons and daughters, brothers and sisters, friends and co-workers on that searing September day, it is my hope that this decisive action will bring one more measure of closure. No day shall erase them from the memory of time. Today and every day, I am so grateful to the superb patriots who serve the United States intelligence community and counterterrorism communities. They never forget. Those dedicated women and men who tirelessly worked every single day to keep our country safe and to prevent future tragedies — it is thanks to their extraordinary persistence and skill that this operation was a success. They have made us all safer. And to those around the world who continue to seek to harm the United States, hear me now: We will always remain vigilant, and we will act. And we will always do what is necessary to ensure the safety and security of Americans at home and around the globe. Today, we remember the lost. We commit ourselves to the safety of the living. And we pledge that we shall never waver from defending our nation and its people. Thank you, all. And may God protect our troops and all those who serve in harm’s way. We will never — we will never give up. 7:40 P.M. EDT
"I look forward to hosting leaders from across the African continent in Washington, DC on December 13-15, 2022, for the U.S.-Africa Leaders Summit.  The Summit will demonstrate the United States’ enduring commitment to Africa, and will underscore the importance of U.S.-Africa relations and increased cooperation on shared global priorities.
The U.S.-Africa Leaders Summit will build on our shared values to better foster new economic engagement; reinforce the U.S.-Africa commitment to democracy and human rights; mitigate the impact of COVID-19 and of future pandemics; work collaboratively to strengthen regional and global health; promote food security; advance peace and security; respond to the climate crisis; and amplify diaspora ties.
I look forward to working with African governments, civil society, diaspora communities across the United States, and the private sector to continue strengthening our shared vision for the future of U.S.-Africa relations.
Well, thank you. It’s good to be once more together with so many vital partners and to strengthening our cooperation on the future of this consequential region of the world. I’d like to thank our Saudi hosts for inviting the United States to join this summit and for their hospitality in welcoming all of us. A great deal has changed since I visited this region when I served as Vice President of the United States, both on the world stage and in the Middle East. Around the world, we’re seeing efforts to undermine the rules-based order: with China’s increasingly coercive actions in the Indo-Pacific and beyond; with Russia’s brutal and unprovoked war against its neighboring Ukraine; and with Iran’s destabilizing activities. Here in the Middle East, we’ve also seen critical changes. For the first time since 9/11, an American President is visiting this region without American troops being engaged in combat — in a combat mission in the region. We’ll always honor the bravery, the selfishness — selflessness of the — and the sacrifices of the Americans who served, including my son, Major Beau Biden, who was stationed in Iraq for a year. And we’ll never forget the memory of the seven thousand fifty- — 7,054 American troops who made the ultimate sacrifice while serving in Iraq, Afghanistan, and elsewhere over the last two decades. But today, I am proud to be able to say that the era of land wars in the region — wars involving huge numbers of American forces — is not underway. We — but we maintain both the capacity and the absolute determination to suppress the terrorist threat wherever we find it. We’ve demonstrated that this year — eliminating the Emir of ISIS on a daring operation, and just this week, taking out another key leader of ISIS. We’re going to continue our counterterrorism efforts working with a broad coalition of countries, including everyone around this table. And we will turn our attention and our resources to supporting our partners, strengthening our alliances, and building coalitions to solve the problems facing this region and the world — and the world today. The United States is clear-eyed about the challenges in the Middle East and about where we have the greatest capacity to help drive positive outcomes. Our objectives are focused on — are — excuse me, are focused, realistic, and achievable so that we can target our resources, rebuild trust, and deliver real results. And we will operate in the context of the Middle East as it is today: a region more united than it has been in years. The GCC is a prime example of that. Former rivals have reestablished diplomatic and economic ties. New memberships are being forged. And increasingly, the world is seeing the Mideast — the Middle East through the lens of opening and opportunity. Let me state clearly that the United States is going to remain an active, engaged partner in the Middle East. As the world grows more competitive and the challenges we face more complex, it is only becoming clearer to me that — how closely interwoven America’s interests are with the successes of the Middle East. We will not walk away and leave a vacuum to be filled by China, Russia, or Iran. And we’ll seek to build on this moment with active, principled American leadership. Our new framework for the Middle East has five key principles, and I’d like to very briefly share them with you today. First, the United States will support and strengthen partnerships with countries that subscribe to the rules-based international order. And we will make sure that these — those countries can defend themselves against foreign threats. The United States and each of the countries around this table are an essential part of that order because we reject the use of brute force to change borders. When the entire GCC, plus Egypt and Jordan, voted in the United Nations General Assembly to condemn Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, it was a watershed moment. It showed that the core values of sovereignty and territorial integrity are truly universal. And I want to be clear: Supporting a rules-based order doesn’t mean we always have to agree on every issue, but it does mean we align around core principles that allow us to work together on the most pressing global challenges. For example, on food security, we are collectively committing billions of dollars to alleviate the crisis here in the region, with more than $1 billion coming from the United States. On energy security, we agree on the need to ensure adequate supplies to meet global needs. Energy producers have already increased production, and I look forward to seeing what’s coming in the — in the coming months. And on the climate crisis, we’re collectively investing hundreds of billions of dollars in clean energy initiatives, increasing our climate ambition, and working together to diversify supply chains and invest in critical infrastructure. And we’re looking forward to Egypt and the UAE hosting the next two major U.N. climate conferences. Second, the United States will not allow — will not allow foreign or regional powers to jeopardize the freedom of navigation through the Middle East’s waterways, including the Strait of Hormuz and the Bab al-Mandab. Nor will we tolerate efforts by any country to dominate another in the region through military buildups, incursions, and/or threats. The free flow of commerce and resources through the Middle East is the lifeblood of a global economy. That’s as true today as it been — as it has been for decades. And when nations adhere to international rules, it works. So my administration has made it a priority to protect those vital waterways. We’ve established a new naval task force to work in partnership with many of your navies to help secure the Red Sea. That includes the first naval task force to use multi-manned surface vessels and artificial intelligence technology to enhance marine — maritime awareness. We’re also integrating air defenses and early warning systems to ensure that we can defeat airborne threats. Third, the United States will not just aim to deter threats of regional — to regional stability; we will work to reduce tensions, de-escalate, and end conflicts wherever possible. This approach is already reaping dividends. As was mentioned: In Yemen, working closely with Saudi Arabia, Oman, the UAE, and the U.N., we forged a truce that is now in its 15th week. We’ve welcomed the leadership Of Iraqi Prime Minister Kadhimi to bring countries from the nei- — from the neighbor- — from the region together for talks in Baghdad. Thanks to the months of quiet, persistent diplomacy, we helped finalize an agreement to remove international peacekeepers from Tiran Island in the Red Sea, and transform an area that once sparked wars into a future hub of peaceful tourism and economic development. And as we continue to work closely with many of you to counter the threats posed by — posed to the region by Iran, we’re also pursuing diplomacy to return constraints on Iran’s nuclear program. But no matter what, the United States is committed to ensuring that Iran never gets a nuclear weapon. Fourth, the United States will build political, economic, and security connections between the United States — between the U.S. partners wherever possible, while respecting each country’s sovereignty and independent choices. Integration, interconnection — these are the underlying themes of our meeting today. How many years have we been trying to connect Iraq’s electricity to the — to the G- — to the GCC grids? I remember being briefed on it in 19- — in 2016, when I was Vice President of the United States. I said, “Let’s get it done.” Well, today, finally, after years of failed efforts and false starts, thanks to the efforts of so many around this table, it’s done. New energy projects linking the region, a new free trade deal and investments between neighbors, like the Saudi investments in Egypt and Jordan. The more we build these connections, the more we’ll see the benefits that return to our peoples and will grow. Fifth, the United States will always promote human rights and the values enshrined in the U.N. Charter. Foundational freedoms are foundational to who we are as Americans. It’s in our DNA. But it’s also because we know that fai- — that the future will be won by the countries that unleash the full potential of their populations, where women can exercise equal rights and contribute to building stronger economies, resilient societies, and more modern and capable militaries; where citizens can question and criticize their leaders without fear of reprisal. I’ve gotten plenty of criticism over the years. It’s not fun. But the ability to speak openly and exchange ideas freely is what unlocks innovation. Accountable ins- — accountable institutions that are free from corruption, that act transparently, and respect the rule of law are the best way to deliver growth, respond to people’s needs, and, I believe, ensure justice. And no country gets it right all the time — even most of the time — including the United States. But our people are our strength. Our countries, with the confidence to learn from their mistakes, grow stronger. So let me conclude by summing all this up in one sentence: The United States is invested in building a positive future in the region, in partnership with all of you, and the United States is not going anywhere. This is a table full of probi- — problem solvers. There are a lot of — there’s a lot of good we can do if we do it together. Thank you again for inviting me to participate in this summit today, and thank you for the many years of partnership between your countries and the United States. May God protect our troops. Thank you. 2:20 P.M. AST
I know it’s late, but thank you for being here. I had a good series of meetings. I just finished more than two hours of meetings with Saudi leadership here in Jeddah, meeting with the King for about a little over half an hour, a working session with the Crown Prince and all the ministers from the — from the energy minister to the sports minister, all the way down the line. And got the chance to talk to basically the entire Saudi government. And thanks to many months of quiet diplomacy by the staff, we’ve accomplished some significant business today. First, as you saw this morning, the Saudis will open their airspace to all civilian carriers. That is a big deal. A big deal. Not only substan- — not only symbolically, but substantively, it’s a big deal. It means Saudi airspace is now open to flights to and from Israel. This is the first tangible step in the path of what I hope will eventually be a broader normalization of relations. Second, we concluded a historic deal that — to transform a flashpoint at the heart of the Middle East wars into an area of peace. International peacekeepers, including U.S. troops, will leave Tiran Island in the Red Sea, where they’ve been for over 40 years since the Camp David Accords. Five American soldiers died on this strategically located island in 2020, and it’s important to remember them today. Now, thanks to the break- — this breakthrough, this island will be open to tourism and economic development while retaining all the necessary security arrangements and — and the present freedom of navigation of all parties, including Israel. Third, we agreed to work together to deepen and extend the Yemen ceasefire. And you know there’s been — there’s carnage been in Yemen of late. And it’s been in place more than three months, resulting in the most peaceful period in Yemen in seven years. We further agreed to pursue a diplomatic process to achieve a wider settlement in Yemen. The Saudi — and Saudi leadership also committed to continue to facilitate the delivery of food and humanitarian goods to civilians. In this context, we discussed Saudi Arabia’s security needs to defend the Kingdom, given very real threats from Iran and Iran’s proxies. Fourth, we concluded several new arrangements to better position our nations for the coming decades. Saudi Arabia will invest in new U.S.-led technology to develop and secure reliable 5G and 6G networks, both here and in the future, in developing countries to coordinate with the Partnership for Global Initiative — the Global Infrastructure and Investment, which I put together at the G7. This new technology solution for 5G, called Open RAN, will outcompete other platforms, including from China. Saudi Arabia will also partner with us on a far-reaching clean energy initiative focused on green hydrogen, solar, carbon capture, nuclear, and other projects to accel- — to accelerate the world’s clean energy transition and to help the U.S. clean energy industry set global standards. And fifth, we had a good — we had a good discussion on ensuring global energy security and adequate oil supplies to support global economic growth. And that will begin shortly. And I’m doing all I can to increase the supply for the United States of America, which I expect to happen. The Saudis share that urgency, and based on our discussions today, I expect we’ll see further steps in the coming weeks. Finally, we discussed human rights and the need for political reform. As always — as I always do, I made clear that the topic was vitally important to me and to the United States. With respect to the murder of Khashoggi, I raised it at the top of the meeting, making it clear what I thought of it at the time and what I think of it now. And it was exactly — I was straightforward and direct in discussing it. I made my view crystal clear. I said very straightforwardly: For an American President to be silent on an issue of human rights, is this consistent with — inconsistent with who we are and who I am? I’ll always stand up for our values. So that’s a quick summary of tonight’s outcomes. Tomorrow, with nine leaders from around the region, we’ll have more. One thing we will discuss is the multibillion-dollar commitment of the GCC to invest in the Partnership for Global Infrastructure Investment, which I announced at the G7 last month, to help address infrastructure needs of low- and middle-income countries that don’t have the wherewithal to borrow the funds to meet the needs of their people. And after years of failed efforts, we have now finalized an agreement to connect Iraq’s electric grid to the GCC grids through Kuwait and Saudi Arabia, and deepening Iraq’s integration into the region and reducing its dependence on Iran. And it was pointed out to me that remi- — I was reminded by staff at the time, at the meeting, that I tried to do that back when I was — in the early days of my vice presidency. Finally, it’s done — being done. Tomorrow, I’ll also be laying out an affirmative framework for America’s engagement in the Middle East to build on these important steps going forward. The bottom line is: This trip is about once again positioning America in this region for the future. We are not going to leave a vacuum in the Middle East for Russia or China to fill. And we’re getting results. I’ll take a couple of questions now. He basically said that he — he was not personally responsible for it. I indicated that he probably * was. He said he was not personally responsible for it and he took action against those who were responsible. And — and we — and then I went on to talk more about how that dealing with any opposition to the — or criticism of the Saudi administration in other countries was viewed as, to me, a violation of human rights. There was no. I’m sorry she feels that way. I was straightforward back then. I was straightforward today. What I — this is a meeting not — I didn’t come here to meet with the Crown Prince. I came here to meet with the GCC and nine nations to deal with the security and — and the needs of the free world, and particularly the United States, and not leave a vacuum here, which was happening as it has in other parts of the world. Well — God love you. What a silly question. How could I possibly be sure of any of that? I just made it clear if anything occurs like that again, they’ll get that response and much more. Look, you’ve heard me say before — and when I criticized Xi Jinping for slave labor and what they’re doing in the — in the western mountains of China, and they said I had no right to criticize China. And I said, “Look, I am President of the United States of America. For the United States President to remain silent on a clear violation of human rights is totally inconsistent with who we are, what we are, and what we would do, what we believe.” And so I’m not going to remain silent. Can I predict anything is going to happen, let alone here, let alone in any other part of the world? No. But I don’t know why you’re all so surprised the way I react. No one has ever wondered did I mean what I say. The question is I sometimes say all that I mean. 
Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you. If you have a seat, please sit down. You’d think someone else walked in the room. Thank you very much for taking the time to be here. I think we can all agree that this has been a historic NATO Summit. Some of the folks have been covering me for a while. About a year and a half ago, when the first G7 meeting took place in England, I talked about the need for us to reconsider the makeup of NATO, how it functioned, and come up with a different strategy for the — for NATO and how we work together. And — and in addition to that, we also talked about the G7 taking on additional responsibilities. And before the war started, I told Putin that if he invaded Ukraine, NATO would not only get stronger but would get more united. And we would see democracies in the world stand up and oppose his aggression and defend the rules-based order. And that’s exactly what we’re seeing today. This summit was about strengthening our Alliance, meeting the challenges of our world as it is today and the threats we’re going to face in the future. The last time NATO drafted a new mission statement was 12 years ago. At that time, it characterized Russia as a partner, and it didn’t even mention China. The world has changed, changed a great deal since then. And NATO is changing as well. At this summit, we rallied our Alliances to meet both the direct threats that Russia poses to Europe and the systemic challenges that China poses to a rules-based world order. And we’ve invited two new members to join NATO. It was a historic act. Finland and Sweden, two countries with a long tradition of neutrality and choosing to join NATO. Some of the American press will remember when I got a phone call from the leader of Finland saying could he come and see me. And he came the next day and said, “Will you support my joining — my country joining NATO?” We got on the telephone, and he suggested we call the leader of Switzerland — “Switzerland,” my good — my goodness. I’m getting really anxious here about expanding NATO. Of Sweden. And what happened was we got on the phone, and she asked if she could come the next day to want to talk about joining NATO. Allies across the board are stepping up, increasing defense spending. A majority of them are on track for the first time to exceed our 2 percent of GDP commitment that they made. They agreed to spend 2 percent of the GDP on defense. Look, for example, Germany: Germany has committed to spending 2 percent going forward, and announced a special fund for its military of more than $100 billion. Slovakia, the Czech Republic, and the Netherlands have announced they will also meet their 2 percent commitments. Poland, Romania, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania are doing more than 2.5 percent, some as high as 3 percent. Together, we’re deploying more assets and capabilities to bolster our Alliances across all domains — land, air, sea, cyber, and space. We — we’ve reaffirmed that our Article 5 commitment is sacred. And an attack on one is an attack on all, and we will defend every inch of NATO territory. Every inch of NATO territory. For our part, the United States is doing exactly what I said we would do if Putin invaded: enhance our force posture in Europe. We’ll station more ships in here, in Spain. We’re stationing more air defense in Italy and Germany; more F-35s in the United Kingdom; and, to strengthen our eastern flank, new permanent headquarters for the Army Fifth Corps in Poland. In addition, an additional brigade combat team positioned in Romania, and additional rotational deployments in the Baltic countries. Things are changing to adapt to the world as we have it today. And all this is against the backdrop of our response to NATO’s — to Russia’s aggression and to help Ukraine defend itself. The United States is rallying the world to stand with Ukraine. Allies and partners around the globe are making significant contributions. Secretary Austin just brought together more than 50 countries — more than 50 countries — pledging new commitments, and this is a global effort to support Ukraine: nearly 140,000 anti-tank systems, more than 600 tanks, nearly 500 artillery systems, more than 600,000 rounds of artillery ammunition, as well as advanced multiple launch rocket systems, anti-ship systems, and air defense systems. And again, the United States is leading the way. We provided Ukraine with nearly $7 billion in security assistance since I took office. In the next few days, we intend to announce more than $800 million more, including a new advanced Western air defense system for Ukraine, more artillery and ammunition, counter-battery radars, additional ammunition for the HIMARS multiple launch rocket system we’ve already given Ukraine and more HIMARS coming from other countries as well. We also welcomed, for the first time, our partners in the Indo-Pacific to participate in the NATO Summit. As I indicated to Putin, this would be — his action would cause worldwide response, bringing together democratic allies and partners from the Atlantic and the Pacific to focus on the challenges that matter to our future and to defend the rules-based order against the challenges, including from China. In the G7 in Germany, we also launched what started off to be the Build Back Better notion, but it’s morphed into the Partnership for Global Infrastructure and Investment, to offer developing and middle-income countries better options to meet their urgent infrastructure needs. Because when the United States and G7 countries put skin in the game, it helped bring — it helps bring millions of dollars up to — before it’s all over — up to possibly a trillion dollars of private sector money off the sidelines — $600 billion in just the next few years. Unlike China, these projects will be done transparently and with very high standards. For example, the U.S. government just facilitated a new partnership between two American firms and the government of Angola to invest $2 billion building a significant solar project in Angola. It’s a partnership to help Angola meet its climate goals and energy needs while creating new markets for American technologies and good jobs in Angola. As you heard me say before: When I think “climate,” I think “jobs.” And the G7 also said we’d work together to take on China’s abusive and coercive trade practices and rid our supply chains of products made with forced labor. We tasked our teams to work on the details of the price cap on Russian oil to drive down Putin’s revenues without hurting Americans and others at the gas pump. We’ll seek to use the funds from the tariffs on Russian goods to help Ukraine rebuild. We’re committed — we’ve committed more than $4.5 billion — more than half of that from the United States — to address food insecurity and the immediate crisis caused by the Russian war. At every step of this trip, we set down a marker of unity, determination, and deep capabilities of the democratic nations of the world to do what need be done. Putin thought he could break the transatlantic Alliance. He tried to weaken us. He expected our resolve to fracture. But he’s getting exactly what he did not want. He wanted the Findalization of NATO. He got the NATOization of Finland. Just think about this: That’s what he thought. Now NATO and Sweden are closer than ever to joining. And this will occur. We’re more united than ever. And with the addition of Finland and Sweden, we’ll be stronger than ever. They have serious militaries, both of them. We’re going to increase the NATO border by 800 miles along the Finnish-Russian border. Sweden is all in. The point is: We’re meeting the goals I set out when we first — the first G7 meeting. We’re moving to a place that reflects the realities of the 20- — the second quarter of the 21st century. And we’re — we’re on the verge of making significant progress. Now, I’d be happy to take your questions. And the first question, I’m told, is Darlene Superville from the Associated Press. They do not think that. You haven’t found one person — one world leader to say America is going backwards. America is better positioned to lead the world than we ever have been. We have the strongest economy in the world. Our inflation rates are lower than other nations in the world. The one thing that has been destabilizing is the outrageous behavior of the Supreme Court of the United States on overruling not only Roe v. Wade, but essentially challenging the right to privacy. We’ve been a leader in the world in terms of personal rights and privacy rights, and it is a mistake, in my view, for the Supreme Court to do what it did. But I have not seen anyone come up to me and do anything other than — nor have you heard them say anything other than, “Thank you for America’s leadership. You’ve changed the dynamic of NATO and the G7.” So I — I can understand why the American people are frustrated because of what the Supreme Court did. I can understand why the American people are frustrated because of inflation. But inflation is higher in almost every other country. Prices at the pump are higher in almost every other country. We’re better positioned to deal with this than anyone, but we have a way to go. And the Supreme Court — we have to change that decision by codifying Roe v. Wade. We are going to support Ukraine as long as it takes. Look at the impact that the war on Ukraine has had on Russia. They’ve had to renege on their national debt for the first time since the beginning — almost well over 100 years. They’ve lost 15 years of the gains they made in terms of their economy. They’re in a situation where they’re having trouble because of my imposition of — of — dealing with what can be exported to Russia, in terms of technology. They can’t even — you know, they’re having — they’re going to have trouble maintaining oil production because they don’t have the technology to do it. They need American technology. And they’re also in a simi- — similar situation in terms of their weapons systems and some of their military systems. So they’re paying a very, very heavy price for this. And just today, Snake Island is now taken over by the — by the Ukrainians. So we are going to stick with Ukraine and all of the Alliance is going to stick with Ukraine as long as it takes to, in fact, make sure that they are not defeated by — by Ukraine — I mean, excuse me, in Ukraine by — by Russia. And, by the way, think of this: Ukraine has already dealt a severe blow to Russia. Russia, in fact, has already lost its international standing. Russia is in a position where the whole world is looking and saying, “Wait a minute, all this effort — you tried to take the whole country. You tried to take Kyiv. You lost. You’ve tried to take the Donbas and all of it. You haven’t done that yet.” The generic point is that we’re supplying them with the capacity — and the overwhelming courage they’ve demonstrated — that, in fact, they can continue to resist the Russian aggression. And so, I don’t know what — how it’s going to end, but it will not end with a Russian defeat of Ukraine in Ukraine. I’m supposed to go down the list here. Jim, the New York — Jim Tankersley, the New York Times. As long as it takes so Russia cannot, in fact, defeat Ukraine and move beyond Ukraine. This is a critical, critical position for the world. Here we are. Why do we have NATO? I told Putin that, in fact, if he were to move, we would move to strengthen NATO. We would move to strengthen us — strengthen NATO across the board. Look, let me explain the price — I suggested a while ago that what we should consider doing is putting a cap on the amount of money that we would pay for — the world would pay for Russian oil, and that we would not — there would — we would not provide — the West — provides insurance — would not insure Russian ships carrying oil. We would not provide insurance for them, so they would have great difficulty getting customers. The point is that we’ve said to them, “Here’s the deal: We’re going to allow you to have a profit on what you make but not the exorbitant prices that you’re charging for the oil now.” We’ve — we’ve delegated a commission — a group of our — sherpa — our national security people to sit down and work out that mechanism. We think it can be done. We think it can be done, and it would drive down the price of oil, and it would drive down the price of gasoline as well. In addition — in addition, at home, I have also called for changes. We’ve — I’ve released a million barrels of oil per day from our oil reserve, and in addition to getting other nations to move forward a total of 240 million barrels of oil to release from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. Number one. Number two, I’ve asked Congress would they, in fact, go and end the — temporarily end the tax on gasoline at the pump. And thirdly, to ask the states to do the same thing. If we do these things, it’s estimated we could bring down, tomorrow, if they — if Congress agreed and the states agreed, we could bring down the price of oil about a dollar a gallon at the pump, in that range. And so, we could have immediate relief in terms of the reduction of the — of the elimination of — temporary elimination of the gas tax. And so I think there’s a lot of things we can do and we will do. But the bottom line is: Ultimately, the reason why gas prices are up is because of Russia. Russia, Russia, Russia. The reason why the food crisis exist is because of Russia — Russia not allowing grain to get out of Ukraine. And so that’s the way in which I think we should move, and I think it would have a positive impact on the price at the pump as well. Jordan Fabian, Bloomberg. What I said was — I said back in December, as you’ll recall, we should sell them the F-16 jets and modernize those jets as well. It’s not in our interest not to do that. And I indicated to them that I’ve not changed my position at all since December. And there was no quid pro quo with that; it was just that we should sell. But I need congressional approval to be able to do that, and I think we can get that. Well, first of all, that’s not the purpose of the trip. The purpose of the trip — my — first of all, I’m starting off on that trip in Israel. And the Israelis are — believe it’s really important that I make the trip. And in addition to that, what we’re trying to do is that the G- — it’s the Gulf States plus three. And so, I’m sure — it’s in Saudi Arabia, but it’s not about Saudi Arabia. It’s in Saudi Arabia. And so there’s no commitment that is being made or — I’m not even sure; I guess I will see the King and the Crown Prince, but that’s — that’s not the meeting I’m going to. They’ll be part of a much larger meeting. And what we’re talking about in dealing with that trip is that, before I go, I’m, as I said, going to Israel to meet with Israeli leaders to affirm the unbreakable bond Israel and the United States have. And part of the purpose is — the trip to the Middle East — is to deepen Israel’s integration in the region, which I think we’re going to be able to do and which is good — good for peace and good for Israeli security. And that’s why Israel leaders have come out so strongly for my going to Saudi. But the overall piece here is we’re also going to try to reduce the deaths and — in the war that’s occurring in Yemen. There’s a whole range of things that go well beyond anything having to do with Saudi in particular. No, I’m not going to ask them. I’m going to ask — there’s — all the Gulf States are meeting. I’ve indicated to them that I thought they should be increasing oil production, generically — not to the Saudis particularly. And I think we’re going to — I hope we see them, in their own interest, concluding that makes sense to do. And, you know, they have real concerns about — about what’s going on in Iran and other places in terms of their security as well — all of them. Tarina , the Wall Street Journal. No, I — the war could end tomorrow, by the way, if Russia stops its irrational behavior. So, you know, when the war will end, I hope it ends sooner than later. But for it to end, they have to be in a position where the Is- — the Ukrainians have all that they can reasonably expect, we can reasonably expect to get to them, in order to perva- — provide for their physical security and their defenses. And so, one does not relate to the other. They need — we’re going to be providing another — well, I guess I’ll announce it shortly, but another $800 billion — $800 million in aid for additional weaponry, including — you know, weapons, including air defense system, as well as offensive weapons. I have a whole list I’d be happy to give to you. But that’s the next tranche that’s going to occur.
Thank you very much. Well, good afternoon, folks. Our nations and our world stand at a genuine inflection point in history. Technology has made our world smaller, more immediate, and more connected. It’s opened up incredible opportunities, but also accelerated challenges that impact on all of us: managing global energy needs, taking on the climate crisis, dealing with the spread of diseases. And the choices we make now, in my view, are going to set a direction of our world for several generations to come. These challenges are hard for all of us, even nations with resources of the G7. But developing countries often lack the essential infrastructure to help navigate global shocks, like a pandemic. So they feel the impacts more acutely, and they have a harder time recovering. In our deeply connected world, that’s not just a humanitarian concern, it’s an economic and a security concern for all of us. That’s why, one year ago, when this group of leaders met in Cornwall, we made a commitment: The democratic nations of the G7 would step up — step up and provide financing for quality, high-standard, sustainable infrastructure in developing and middle-income countries. What we’re doing is fundamentally different because it’s grounded on our shared values of all those representing the countries and organizations behind me. It’s built using the global best practices: transparency, partnership, protections for labor and the environment. We’re offering better options for countries and for people around the world to invest in critical infrastructure that improves the lives — their lives, all of our lives — and delivers real gains for all of our people, not just the G7 — all of our people. Today, we officially launch the Partnership for Global Infrastructure and Investment. We collectively have dozens of projects already underway around the globe. And I’m proud to announce the United States will mobilize $200 billion in public and private capital over the next five years for that Partnership. We’re here today because we’re making this commitment together as a G7 in coordination with one another to maximize the impact of our work. Collectively, we aim to mobilize nearly $600 billion from the G7 by 2027. These strategic investments are areas of — critical to sustainable development and to our shared global stability: health and health security, digital connectivity, gender equality and equity, climate and energy security. Let me give you some examples of the kinds of projects that are underway in each of these areas. First, health. Two years ago, COVID-19 — didn’t need any reminders about how critical investments in healthcare systems were and health sec- — and health security is, both to fight the pandemic and to prepare for the next one, because it will not be the last pandemic we under- — we have to deal with. That’s why the United States, together with the G7 partners and the World Bank, are investing in a new industrial-scale vaccine manufacturing facility in Senegal. When complete, it will have the potential to produce hundreds of millions of doses of vaccines annually for COVID-19 and other diseases. It’s an investment that will enhance global vaccine supplies as well as improve access and equity for developing countries. Second, in the digital area. Our economies’ future increasingly depends on people’s ability to connect to secure information and communications technologies. And we need to strengthen the use of trusted technologies so that our online information cannot be used by autocrats to consolidate their power or repress their people. That’s why the Digital Invest Program is mobilizing $335 million in private capital to supply secure network equipment in Africa, Asia, and Latin America. And the U.S. government also supported the successful bid by an American company, SubCom, for a $600 million contract to build a global subsea telecommunications cable. This cable will stretch from Southeast Asia, through the Middle East and the Horn of Africa, to Europe. This will be essential to meeting the growing demand for reliable security, high-tech connectivity in three key regions of the world. Third, gender. When women and girls have the ability and the opportunity to parcia- — to participate more fully in those societies and economies, we see positive impacts not only in their communities but around the board — across the board. We have to increase those opportunities, though, for women and girls to thrive, including practical steps to make childcare more accessible and affordable as we continue the vital work to protect and advance women’s fundamental rights. The United States is committing $50 million over five years to the World Bank’s global Childcare Incentive Fund. This public-private partnership supported by several G7 partners will help countries build infrastructure that makes it easier for women to participate equally — equally — in the labor force. Fourth and very important, climate and energy. We’re seeing just how critical this is every day. The entire world is feeling the impact of Russia’s brutal war in Ukraine and on our energy markets. We need worldwide effort to invest in transformative clean energy projects to ensure that critical infrastructure is resilient to changing climate. Critical materials that are necessary for our clean energy transition, including the production of batteries, need to be developed with high standards for labor and the environment. Fast and reliable transportation infrastructure, including railroads and ports, is essential to moving inputs for refining and processing and expanding access to clean energy technologies. For example, the U.S. government just facilitated a new partnership between two American firms and the government of Angola to invest $2 billion in building new solar projects in Angola. It’s a partnership that will help Angola meet its climate goals and energy needs while creating new markets for American technologies and good jobs in Angola and, I suspect, throughout Africa. And in Romania, the American company, NuScale Power, will build a first-of-its-kind small modular reactor plant. This will help bring online zero-emission nuclear energy to Europe faster, more cheaply, and more efficiently. The U.S. government is helping to advance the development of this groundbreaking American technology, which will strengthen Europe’s energy security and create thousands of jobs in Romania and the United States. These deals are just some of what’s in store. And we’re ready. We’re ready to get to work, together, all of us. To lead efforts — to lead U.S. efforts, in my case — appointed — I appointed Amos Hochstein, my Special Presidential Coordinator, to deal with the rest of our colleagues. I’ll lead the U.S. whole-of-government approach to drive a coalition and a collaboration with the G7 and our partners around the world, including private sector and multilateral development banks. I want to be clear: This isn’t aid or charity; it’s an investment that will deliver returns for everyone, including the American people and the people of all our nations. It’ll boost all of our economies, and it’s a chance for us to share our positive vision for the future and let communities around the world see themselves — and see for themselves the concrete benefits of partnering with democracies. Because when democracies demonstrate what we can do, all that we have to offer, I have no doubt that we’ll win the competition every time. Thank you. And now I invite President von der Leyen to the podium. 5:28 P.M. CEST
Good afternoon. Please — please, sit down. Well, welcome again to the ninth Summit of the Americas. A lot of hard work has gone into this summit, and a lot of strong and constructive diplomacy so far, I believe. We brought together diverse voices and stakeholders and development an ambition agenda and — agenda for action to address the issues that matter most to the future of our region. They’re not all the same concerns, in some — one sense. In another sense, they’re all incredibly intertwined. I’m incredibly honored to be hosting all of you here in Los Angeles. My administration and the proposals that we’re eager to discuss with you were — we wanted to begin to talk about today — proposals that I think are a far cry from what we saw from our previous American administration. But equally important, we — the Vice President and I — we want to listen, hear all of you — what you think we should we be doing. The next few days, we have an opportunity to find ways we can do better for all of our people by working together. And I emphasize “together.” Together. That’s what our people expect of us. And it’s our duty to show them the power of democracies to deliver when democracies work together. The United States stands ready to work in partnership with all of you — governments, institutions, civil societies, young leaders of tomorrow. And I invite my fellow heads of state and heads of government of the Americas to join me in adopting concrete hemispheric commitments that are going to advance our efforts to build a more sustainable, resilient, and equitable future. With our Action Plan on Health and Resilience, we’re going to help our region recover from COVID-19, while strengthening health systems, improving our ability to respond to future health emergencies by investing in health workers. The new Americas Health Corps will train 500,000 public health and medical professionals in the region over the next five years. The United States is going to fund this together with the Pan American Health Organization so when the next pandemic hits, which it will, we’ll be ready and trained healthcare workers to administer the vaccines and the needed care, which we don’t have now. And it won’t cost your countries anything. Through our efforts to strengthen the clean energy economy in the Americas, we’re committing to just — not just an energy transition but to make communities that have been historically marginalized are able to share equally in the gains, with equitable access to both good-paying jobs we’ll create and the affordable clean energy that will be made available. I’m going to continue to work, just as I did when I was Vice President with Barack Obama, to promote trade and investment in clean energy, including using the United States International Development Finance Corporation, to help countries that need assistance to access financing and to help the region reach ambitious renewable energy goals by 2030. By adopting the Inter-American Action Plan on Democratic Governance, we will — we’re going to commit our nations to making real the promise of the Inter-American Democratic Charter. And sometimes we forget what it says. It says: inclusive democratic governance, transparency and accountability, protections for human rights of all people, respect for the rule of law. And on all these issues and more, the United States is making critical commitments to demonstrate our enduring investment in our shared future — and to address our shared concerns, because they are shared. Last night, I announced the Americas Partnership Economic Prosperity plan to drive equitable economic recovery and invest in working families throughout the hemisphere. Today, I rolled out a new partnership and collaboration with the Caribbean countries to address climate change. I just spent a little time with the Caribbean leaders. We have to go back and do a lot more and hear directly about their concerns and discuss all the ways we can move together, as they pointed out to me just an hour ago, with a sense of urgency — not years, not months, but soon. Soon. We’re making good on our commitment to vaccinate the Americas against COVID-19, building more than — going to be more than 65 million doses that we’ve already donated to the region. Over the next few days, we’re also announcing more than $645 million in new lifesaving assistance to address food insecurity in the region and increase the ability to respond to disasters, as well as historic refugee and migration flows. Each one of our countries has been impacted by unprecedented migration, and I believe it’s our shared responsibility to meet this challenge. And I emphasize “shared.” Tomorrow, a number us will join — a number of us will join in announcing the Los Angeles Declaration on Migration and Protection. This will bring our nations together around a transformative new approach to invest in the region solutions that enhance stability, to increase opportunities for safe and orderly migration, to crack down on the criminals and human traffickers who prey on desperate people, and coordinate specific, concrete actions to secure our borders and resolve the shared challenges. And tomorrow, I’ll be speaking more to this and laying out our commitments. The bottom line is this: The Western Hemisphere is home for all of us. Back in 2013, when I was Vice President to Barack Obama, he asked me to lead our engagement with the region. And I said we should be talking about the hemisphere and I made a speech back then, saying the hemisphere — we should look at it as a “middle-class, secure, democratic” hemisphere — from Chile — “from Canada to Chile and everywhere in between.” Over the past decade, our region has changed. The challenges we faced have changed. And so, our policies and our solutions have to change as well. But I want to be very clear: My fundamental view and my approach to the hemisphere has not changed. I still believe what I said then, and I hope that you do too. There is no reason why the Western Hemisphere can’t be the most forward-looking, most democratic, most prosperous, most peaceful, secure region in the world. We have unlimited potential. We have enormous resources and a democratic spirit that stands for freedom and opportunity for everybody. And no matter what else is happening in the world, the Americas will always be a priority for the United States of America. So, thank you again for being part of this summit. We have a busy few days and incredible opportunities ahead of us. So, let’s get to work. And I’m now supposed to hush up and sit down, and we’re going to have a conversation. Is that right? I’ll be very brief. I want to thank you again for participating in the summit. I think we’re off to a strong start. I heard a lot of important ideas raised. And notwithstanding some of the disagreements relating to participation, on the substantive matters what I heard was almost unity — uniformity: rational migration policy, doing something about the need to provide access to recovery and funding, a situation where we concluded that we must work on the environment and climate change, and so many other things. And there’s no reason why the Western Hemisphere can’t be the most forward-looking, most democratic, most open and peaceful secure region in the world. We can lead the world and — with the potential that exists in our people and our values. And so, the way we achieve that vision, I think, is by working together. And that’s what we’re doing these last couple of days. It’s going to take a challenge that’s — impacts on all of us — and to unlock the opportunities and the benefits that are available. But notwithstanding the disagreements, think back to what we heard today. We heard almost total agreement on the substantive things that we should be doing. So, let’s get down to real specifics in the next couple days as to what those substantive things are, how they’re implemented, who implements them, how we agree on them, what differences we have on them, so we get down to as — as the expression in English goes, “to brass tacks.” There’s probably a better Spanish or other phrase for it than mine. But get down to really what’s at stake so we can solve some serious problems. Thank you all, and enjoy the rest of the day. 3:47 P.M. PDT
Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Thank you all so much. Please, have a seat. I’ve only been President about a year and a half, but every time I walk in a room and everybody stands up, I think there may be a fire or something. Press, that was a joke. That was a joke. Well, it’s wonderful to be with you this morning. I really mean it. I want to thank the Chamber of Commerce for bringing together this group of business leaders from all across the region. And all of us here in Los Angeles for a simple reason: because we believe in the incredible economic potential of the Americas. I know I do. We all do. I mean, it’s — I — I just think the potential is unlimited. The region is filled with dynamic energy: entrepreneurs who are ready to break out, innovators who will change the way we think and the way we do things, young people poised to seize the future. Everybody — the press always asks me why am I so optimistic with the way things are. Take a look at all these young folks. They’re the best educated. They’re the most generous. They’re the people who have done the most, they’re ready to volunteer, and they’re the least prejudiced folks in the world. It’s a new generation. And underpinning — it gives me an enormous sense of — and I mean this sincerely — an enormous sense of optimism. We have everything we need right here in the Western Hemisphere not only to point ourselves toward a future that is more prosperous, secure, and democratic, but the ability to achieve it as well. And for — all of you are essential to making sure we get to this place we have to get to. You know, the private sector is able to move quickly to mobilize vast amounts of investment capital that’s going to be needed to unlock the enormous potential for growth in this hemisphere, in the region. And when we combine the ability of government to direct economic activity toward specific challenges, to help mitigate risks, guard against unfair practices, and create a predictable demand with the agility of the private sector, I believe we can deliver real improvements for people’s lives. I really believe it. You know, just — well, I — my wife often reminds me that I had a doctor who — a long time ago — who was saying, when I had — I had an aneurism, he kept saying, “Is it congenital or is it environmental?” And I said, “I don’t care. I just — just get it done.” He said, “You know what your problem is, Senator?” I said, “No.” He said, “You’re a congenital optimist.” But I am. I’m an American, and that’s why I’m a congenital optimist. So, look — I really mean it. We can do anything. Jobs that pay good wages and respect workers’ rights. Communities that come to life around investments. Families that can envision a future with an opportunity to just — as my dad would say, “just give them a little bit of breathing room.” A little bit of breathing room. When that happens, everyone prospers, including all of you. All of you. But to achieve this, we’ve got to update our recipe, in my view, for economic growth. It’s time to put a nail in the coffin, in my view, of trickle-down economics. It doesn’t work. It keeps you in an increasingly smaller and smaller world. It doesn’t work. It keeps yielding the same results: greater inequity, slower growth, less competition, and less innovation. In the past few years, we exposed the weakness of prioritizing short-term profits and working exclusively to maximize efficiency. We learned firsthand the pain that happens when just-in-time supply chains break down or hit a bottleneck. It’s a fundamental difference. And to all of — and you all felt it as well. The COVID-19 pandemic triggered a global economic crisis that we’re still digging out of. And now, Putin’s brutal, unprovoked war in Ukraine has created economic disruptions that are affecting the entire globe. And that’s not hyperbole. And these won’t be the only shocks we’re going to have to navigate. Climate change is increasing the pace and intensity of natural disasters. I leave from here — on my way back east, I’m going to be stopping in New Mexico. They’ve had an incredible impact on their — on their environment of late. Rising inequity and food insecurity around the world can fuel political instability. You all know that. And the question is not “if” we face another pandemic; it’s “when” we face it and are we going to be prepared this time. So, the economy of the future will increasingly belong to those who place a premium on resilience and reliability, who invest in innovation over long te- — over the long term and strengthen systems and supply chains now, and mitigate the impact of future shocks before they hit. Each of us — each of us — the government and the private sector — have a critical role to play. That’s why I’m focused on driving economic policies that grow our economy from the bottom up and the middle out, because, quite frankly, when that works, everybody does well and the wealthy do very, very well. No one gets hurt. No one gets hurt. For example, here in the United States, we’re making a generational investment on our infrastructure. It used to — we used to be number one in the world when I first came to the United States Congress. Now we’re number 13 in the world. Thirteen. I don’t have to tell business people what that means in term of economic growth. But we’re fixing that. That’s going to be the benefit to the entire region. We’re investing $1.2 trillion, bipartisanly, to upgrade our infrastructure — to fix crumbling roads and bridges and ports, airports all across the country. And that’s going to help you get goods to market faster while creating good-paying union jobs — and I know a lot of you don’t like my saying “union” — but unions jobs to support working families, because that’s what’s happening. Everyone benefits. Everybody wins when that occurs. And the return on our investment is going to strengthen U.S. competitiveness throughout the 21st century. You know, this is the same approach we’re taking across the Americas Partnership for Economic Prosperity. Many of the countries in our region qualify as middle-income countries, but that label doesn’t remove the persistent structural challenges that run — and deep inequity. “Middle-income” means you don’t get the benefit of a lot of opportunities. So, we can change that and help governments make life better, easier, and fairer for their peoples by using hemispheric multinational financial institutions to modernize and mobilize greater levels of private investment and create good-paying jobs. I know there are real barriers for you to contend with. That’s why we want to work with you to level the playing field. As I said last night, the United States is prepared to put new capital in the Inter-American Development Bank’s private-sector lending arm — the IDB Invest — to help catalyze the flow of private capital into the region, especially to support startups, digital connec- — digital connectivity, and renewable energy, and health. For example, we need to make it easier for countries in Latin America and the Caribbean to develop their 5G infrastructure without having to choose between investing in their digital future or renewable energy structure — to be able to do both. We de- — we need to unlock the financing so that both can be done at the same time. We want to make sure our closest neighbors have a real choice between the debt-trap development that has become more common — more and more common in the region and the high-quality, transparent approach to infrastructure and investment that delivers lasting gains for workers and their families. And by working through the U.S. International Development Finance Corporation to lower the risk around these kinds of investments, support policy reforms to improve investment in climate in countries — excuse me — the investment in climate — the climate investment in these countries, and level the playing field, we’re going to open up new areas of private-sector investors that are not only economically viable but are highly desirable. You know, over the course of this summit, the governments are coming together to make significant, concrete commitments across a range of issues vital to achieving sustainable and equitable growth throughout the region: On bringing supply chains closer to home. On fostering innovation and developing a shared framework for our digital future. On kicking our action on climate change into high gear and speeding our clean energy transition. On bolstering health systems and food security in the Western Hemisphere. On managing safe and orderly migration as a shared responsibility through innovative and coordinated action to enforce our borders and stabilize migrant populations, while seizing the shared opportunity for economic growth. My challenge to all of you is: If you step up and play a bigger role in driving inclusive, sustainable, equitable growth in the 21st century, a lot is going to happen. What more can you do to engage in these issues that shape our future? Not as a favor to me or to any government leader, but because it’s in your own overwhelming economic self-interest. If you make the investments necessary to build more secure and resilient supply chains, that’s ultimately going to bring down your cost and make you more competitive and boost your bottom line. You’re going to hear from John Kerry about the opportunities for private-sector innovation and new markets that will be critical to reach our climate goals. Yesterday, Vice President Harris spoke about the $3.2 billion mobili- — mobilized by our Call to Action efforts in Central America, including — including from several companies in this room, to bring quality economic opportunity to the region. We’re expanding the 100,000 Strong in the Americas program to focus on opportunities for young people in climate and STEM fields, especially in the Caribbean and Central America. And I urge you — I urge you to join us with matching funds, just as you did when we launched the program 10 years ago. There are many more examples, but let me close with this: We stand at an inflection point. I know you’re tired of hearing me say when I was running, and I continue to say it every day. We’re at an inflection point. More is going to change in the next 10 years than has changed in the last 30 years in the world. Decisions we make today are going to have far-reaching impacts on our future. They’re going to last well into the middle of the century. And, business leaders, as — you all see where the trend lines are reporting — are pointing as clearly as I do. And our challenge is to shape the outcomes so the future reflects the democratic values of our region, an economy that we want to live and work in and that ensures a fair playing field for our workers and our businesses. As we navigate this inflection point, leaders and business and those who come out ahead are going to be the people who are going to lead this change for the future — not those stuck looking backwards and sitting on the sidelines. None of us will be able to fully realize our ambition for the region on our own. So let’s use this summit to tackle the obstacles to growth, come together around new ideas and new opportunities to take our region’s biggest challenges on and defeat them, and for all of us — all of us to prosper. I really believe there is nothing we’re unable to do. And I think we’re prime — we’re primed. And I’ll close with this that I’m going to say a little later at the general session: I think — I find no reason why the Western Hemisphere — the Western Hemisphere, over the next 10 years, is not developed into the most democratic hemisphere in the world, most democratic region in the entire world. We have everything. We have the people. We have the resources. And we have more democracies in this hemisphere than any other hemisphere. So there’s a lot we can do, but a lot of it matters in the private enterprise side of the equation. You all — you all are on the font of enormous ideas and opportunities. So I want to thank you all, and I look forward to working with you. And as — as my — every time I’d walk out of my Grandpop Finnegan’s house, he’d yell, “Joey, keep the faith.” And my grandmother would yell, “No, Joey, spread it. Spread the faith.” Thank you. Appreciate it.
Good evening. Please be seated. Welcome to Los Angeles. And I probably should stop right here because I’ve followed some difficult acts in the past. I followed some difficult acts, but never before have I followed such a difficult act as I’ve seen the last 45 minutes up here. It’s an honor to host my fellow leaders from throughout the — our hemisphere for the ninth Summit of the Americas at a moment when we need more cooperation, common purpose, and transformative ideas that have never been a greater need than today. I also want to welcome all the representatives from civil society, the private sector, international institutions, and especially young people from across the Americas who are participating in this summit. Democracy is a hallmark of our region. Our Inter-American Democratic Charter, which grew out of the third Summit of the Americas, captures our unique commitment to democracy as a region. It affirms the right of people throughout the Americas to democracy and our obligation as governments to promote and defend democracy. As we meet again today, in a moment when democracy is under assault around the world, let us unite again and renew our conviction that democracy is not only the defining feature of American histories, but the essential ingredient to Americas’ futures. Folks — — to state the obvious, our region is large and diverse. We don’t always agree on everything, but because we’re democracies, we work through our disagreements with mutual respect and dialogue. At this summit, we have an opportunity for us to come together around some bold ideas, ambitious actions, and to demonstrate to our people the incredible power of democracies to deliver concrete benefits and make life better for everyone. Everyone. And no longer is this a question of what will we do — what will the United States do for the Americas. The question is what we accomplish by working together as true partners with diverse capabilities but equal and mutual respect, recognizing both our individual sovereignty and our shared responsibilities. The COVID-19 pandemic hit our region particularly hard. While we account for just 12 percent of the global population, we experienced more than 40 percent of reported global pandemic-related deaths. It’s an enormous tragedy that has left too many families grief-stricken. And the ensuing economic crisis, triggered by the pandemic, ravaged economies throughout the hemisphere, wiping out much of the hard-earned progress we had made. Twenty-two million more people fell into poverty in just the first year of the pandemic. Inequity continues to rise. Global inflammatory pressures — were made worse by Putin’s brutal and unprovoked war against Ukraine — are making it harder for families to make ends meet. And all of these factors are contributing to vastly increased migration flows throughout our hemisphere with too many people feeling there is no option available to them to provide for themselves and their families. These challenges affect all of us. All of our nations have a responsibility to step up and ease the pressure people are feeling today. In the months leading up to this summit, countries have made meaningful and concrete commitments to address these challenges. And the United States is attempting to do our part as well. Yesterday, we launched our Cities Forward initiative, recognizing the key roles of mayors and local governments — the role they play in delivering for the people where they live. And we’ll host the inaugural Cities Summit of the Americas in Denver in 2023. Earlier today, we announced a new America Health Corps with 50,000 public health and medical professionals being trained in the region over the next five years to help strengthen our health systems throughout the hemisphere. In the next few days, we’ll be rolling out another new initiative created in cooperation with many of your countries. It includes the U.S.-Caribbean partnership to address the climate crisis, which the Vice President Harris will lead for our country, and a collaboration among the United States — — the United States, Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, and Mexico — the hemisphere’s largest exporters of food — to increase food production for export, as well as increase fertilizer production for transportation — and transportation. Our leaders, all of us, as we discuss ways to better target more than a half a billion dollars of — the United States is devoting to increasing security for our citizens, working with partners to disrupt transnational criminal organizations, go after drug traffickers and illicit firearms, advancing anticorruption efforts, and strengthening the rule of law. And tonight, I’m announcing a new economic partnership that builds on all the work we have done with the region and will guide our engagement going forward. We’re calling it “Americas Partnership for Economic Prosperity,” and it’s grounded on the same core values that my administration is bringing to our own strong economic recovery and to bolster long-term economic competitiveness in the United States. First, the American Partnership will help economies grow from the bottom up and the middle out, not the top down. What’s true — — what’s true in the United States is true in every country: Trickle-down economics does not work. But when we invest in strengthening workers and the middle class, the poor have a ladder up, and those at the top do just fine. That’s how we can increase opportunity and decrease persistent inequity. We need to break the cycle where marginalized communities are hit the hardest by disasters and have the fewest resources to recover from crises and prepare for the next one. Together, we have to invest in making sure our trade is sustainable and responsible and creating supply chains that are more resilient, more secure, and more sustainable. By working with close friends who share our values, we can make sure that we are not left vulnerable to unexpected shocks while generating economic opportunity for the people in our region. Second, the Americas Partnership will foster innovation and help governments to deliver for their own people. People everywhere expect their government to help give them just a little bit of breathing room, provide opportunities for work that pays a decent wage, educate children so they can rise as high as their talents can take them, make communities more secure so families feel safe in their homes and individuals know their rights will be respected. That means directing investment to help governments deliver on those responsibilities, including modernize — modernizing multilateral development banks to better address the challenges of today and of the future. For example, many countries in our region have prospered — have profited over — prospered overall, making it harder for them to secure development lending. But they struggle with deep inequity. I’m proposing a fundamental reforms to the Inter- –Inter-American Development Bank Group. And the United States is ready to put our new capital in the bank’s private sector lending arm — the IDB investment — — to help capitalize in the critical flow of private capital into the region, especially to those startup, digital connectivity, renewable energy, and health. Third, the American Partnership will tackle the climate crisis head on, with the same mentality we’re bringing to the work in the United States. When I hear “climate,” I think jobs — good-paying, high-quality jobs that will help speed our transition — — to a green economy of the future and unleash sustainable growth; jobs in developing and deploying clean energy; jobs in decarbonizing the economy; jobs in protecting biodiversity of our hemisphere; jobs that will provide dignity of being able to feed your family, give your children a better life, and envision a future of possibilities. That’s what this is all about: responding to basic human desires that we share for dignity, for safety, and for security. And when those basics are absent in one place, that’s when people make the desperate decision to seek them elsewhere. So, on Friday, we’ll also come together to la- — to launch the Los Angeles Declaration, a ground-breaking, integrated new approach to managing migration and sharing responsibility across the hemisphere. The declaration represents a mutual commitment to invest in regional solutions that enhance stability, increase opportunities for safe and orderly migration through the region, and crack down on criminal and human trafficking who prey on desperate people. Safe and orderly migration is good for all of our economies, including the United States. It can be a catalyst for sustainable growth. But unlawful migration is not acceptable. And we will enforce our borders, including through innovative, coordinated action with our regional partners. We’ve come a long way together since the United States hosted the first Summit of the Americas 28 years ago. But the “Spirit of Miami,” as it was known — the sense of hope and new possibilities that defined that first summit — remains key to facing the challenges of today and unlocking the incredible potential that exists in this hemisphere — in the Americas. There is no reason why the Western Hemisphere shouldn’t be secure, prosperous, and democratic, from Canada’s northernmost reaches to the southern tips of Chile. We have all the tools we need right here in our own hemisphere. Our people are dynamic and innovative. Our nations are committed to working in partnership. And our region is forever knit together by the close bonds of family and enduring friendship. We see it here in Los Angeles, as you heard earlier, a city that has been shaped from its earliest days and strengthened over the decades by the rich and diverse con- — contributions from people of all our nations. It’s written in the murals, the markets, the thoroughfares that crisscross the city, bearing witness to the history, struggle, and the indomitable spirit of the people of the Americas. This city is testament to the connections that bind us and our capacity to achieve great things together. So tonight, let’s enjoy a wonderful celebration. Let us leave here renewed with purpose and a renewed partnership. And tomorrow, let’s get to work building the future this region deserves. Thank you all. And again, welcome, welcome, welcome.
Thank you all for joining today for the launch of the Indo-Pacific Economic Framework for Prosperity. Prime Minister Kishida, thank you for your leadership and partnership as we prepared for this announcement. We’re launching today with countries from across the Indo-Pacific — Australia, Brunei, India — and, by the way, Mr. Prime Minister, thank you for being here as well — Prime Minister of India — the Republic of Korea, Malaysia, and New Zealand, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, and Vietnam. And we’re here today for one simple purpose: The future of the 21st century economy is going to be largely written in the Indo-Pacific — in our region. The Indo-Pacific covers half the population of the world and more than 60 percent of the global GDP. And the nations represented here today, and those who will join this framework in the future, are signing up to work toward an economic vision that will deliver for all peoples — all our peoples: the vision for an Indo-Pacific that is free and open, connected and prosperous, and secure as well as resilient, where our economic — where economic growth is sustainable and is inclusive. We’re writing the new rules for the 21st century economy that are going to help all of our countries’ economies grow faster and fairer. We’ll do that by taking on some of the most acute challenges that drag down growth and by maximizing the potential of our strongest growth engines. Let’s start with new rules governing trade in digital goods and services so companies don’t have to hand over the proprietary technology to do business in a country. Let’s create a first-of-its-kind supply chain commitments to eliminate bottlenecks in critical supply chains and develop early warning systems so we can identify problems before they occur. And let’s — let’s pursue other first-of-its-kind commitments to clean energy and decarbonization. The climate crisis is an existential threat that is costing us trillions in economic damage, but there’s also incredible potential and opportunity to solve problems and create good jobs by transitioning to a clean energy economies. Let’s choke off the loopholes that get at the corruption that steals our public resources. It’s — it’s estimated that corruption saps between 2 to 5 percent of global GDP. It exacerbates inequality. It hollows out a country’s ability to deliver for its citizens. And tax and trade belongs in the same framework, because if companies aren’t paying their fair share, it’s harder for governments to pay for Trade Adjustment Assistance or to fund education or health services, or a range of public investments — that make it so hard for families, it feels like they can’t raise their children and give them a better life. That’s ultimately my economic policy and — and foreign and domestic — what our foreign and domestic policy is about. And that’s what this framework is about as well. So, starting today with 13 economies — economies that represent diverse sets of perspectives as we work on pursuing our common goals. That’s critical because a key to our success will be the framework’s emphasis on high standards and inclusivity. This framework should drive a race to the top among the nations in the Indo-Pacific region. And I want to be clear that the framework will be open to others who wish to join in the future if they sign up and meet the goals and work to achieve those goals. I’m glad to have seen so many of you in person this — the past two weeks. At the U.S.-ASEAN Summit, I saw many of you in Washington, and during my travels to Asia. And I’m eager to hear from each of you today. I thank you for taking the time to be part of this framework launch. And let me close by saying the United States is deeply invested in the Indo-Pacific. We’re committed for the long haul, ready to champion our vision for a positive future for the region together with friends and partners, including the nations in this room and on the screen. It’s a priority in our agenda, and we’re going to keep working to make progress with all of you every day so that we can deliver real, concrete benefits for all our people. That’s how I believe we will win the competition of the 21st century together. So thank all of you again for joining today. And I’ll invite Prime Minister Kishida to say a few words now. Mr. Prime Minister. Well, I’ll be brief. First of all, let me say thank you for everyone for joining today. And thank you very much for hosting us, Mr. Prime Minister. The — we launched this new framework. I appreciate hearing from all of you and for your contributions. And it’s clear there will be a lot of hard work ahead of us to forge consensus on each of the framework pillars. But in our discussions today, it’s clear that we all recognize the fundamental direction we need to move in. We share the same goal of ensuring a free and open Indo-Pacific that will deliver greater prosperity and greater opportunity for all of our children. So let’s all take all the tasks that we have together, work together coming out of this launch, and to speed our progress toward that goal and work rapidly to develop the first commitments. So thank you again, Prime Minster Kishida, for your strong leadership in this launch and for welcoming us here in Tokyo. I’m looking forward to continuing to work with all of you and to strengthen the economic cooperation to deliver inclusive growth and shared prosperity. You’re all probably tired of seeing me all this time — after all this time, in the last couple of months, but thank you again. I really appreciate the work you’re all doing. And we can — I think we can make some real progress. Thank you.
Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, thank you, Mr. Chairman. It’s — I think the last time we were together, we were at a university. Was it two thousand and — 2013. He showed me a picture. I didn’t have a lot more hair then either. It’s great to be here to announce the more than $10 billion in new investment in American manufacturing. This new commitment of $5 billion for advanced automotive technology and $5.5 billion investment to open a new factory near Savannah, Georgia, is going to create more than 8,000 new American jobs. The plan is to break ground as soon as January of 2023. And the new facility should be rolling out the latest electric vehicles and batteries to power them by 2025. And the workers in Georgia who will build these pla- — these plants and manufacture this new electric battery technology, it means economic opportunity for an awful lot of Americans. And I want to commend my friends and the two senators in Georgia, Rafael Warnock and Jon Ossoff, for how they’ve been fighting for Georgia to be the magnet for this clean energy investment. And these investments are part of a trend my administration — in my administration. Manufacturing jobs are coming back to America. Even before these new investments, my administration, since coming to office, created 545,000 new manufacturing jobs since we took office. And thanks to Hyundai, we are being part of this transformative automobile sector and accelerating us on the road where we’re going to be handling to — the United States — an all-electric future. And that’s what we’re shooting for. Our administration is setting ambitious standards to cut pollution in cars and trucks and boost — boost fuel economy standards for those continuing to operate on gasoline. And last year, standing together with the CEOs of major American manufacturers, along with the CEO and the head of the United Auto Workers, I signed an executive order setting a goal of having 50 percent of all new vehicles sold by the year 2030 be electric. And it’s an ambitious target, I know, but I believe we can meet it. But we’re all committed to making it happen — auto companies, American UAW, and the — and the federal government as well — because all understand the same basic thing: Electric vehicles are good for our climate goals, but they’re also good for jobs, and they’re good for business. Hyundai and any company investing in the United States would benefit greatly from entering into partnerships with some of the most highly skilled, dedicated, and engaged workers in the world, anywhere you can find. And that is American union members. And again, every venture to manufacture electric vehicles and electric vehicle batteries would be made stronger by a collective bargaining relationship with our unions. Investing aggressively in electric vehicles and battery production now — now, not tomorrow — now — is also important for strengthening our long-term economic security and accelerating progress toward a clean-energy future. You know, because of Putin’s war, we’ve been sort of knocked off slightly, a little bit, because of the impact of the — impact of Russian oil on Europe. But batteries — batteries that will be made at this new facility in Georgia are going to power cars without one drop of gasoline and increase security of our battery supply chains as well. That’s going to serve — save families money at the pump because they can skip the pump altogether. And instead, families will be able to stop at one of 500,000 new electric vehicle stations — part of the network we’re going to be building across America with the $7.5 billion in funding from the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law. And the Chairman told me walking out here that they’re also going to be investing in battery techno- — in charging stations as well. My administration — and, by the way, when you invest in a charging station along a highway, it’s a little bit like years and years ago, when we were starting to build automobiles in America and you’re investing in a gas station. Other things pop up around it. It has — it has an effect of generating economic growth just by putting in the station. And I think you’re going to see that as well in the United States. My administration is supercharging efforts to lead the electric future. We’re also making historic investments in battery — battery manufacturing, clean transit, and light rail. For example, we’re going to be investing $5 billion to transform our fleet of nearly 500,000 polluting, diesel school buses into clean, all-electric vehicles. And my climate and jobs agenda is making the United States a premier destination for savvy private firms looking to invest in the electric vehicle future. In fact, today’s welcome announcement by Hyundai comes on top of an additional $100 billion of investments in the last year from companies in America — in American manufacturing to build electric vehicles and electric batteries. And so, folks, the administration is going to stay laser-focused on innovation and batteries and EVs, building out our infrastructure and increasing the market demand. So, Chairman Chung, thank you again for choosing the United States. We will not let you down. And over these last two days, I’ve been focusing all my — all the ways in which the Republic of Korea and the United States can work closely together to shape the direction of our world for the better. This deal is another prime example of how that partnership — and innovation, expertise, and values that drive both the Korean and American people — are delivering for the world. So I thank you all for being part of this very integral clean, electric vehicle future, not only here but in my country, and for deepening the ties between our two great democracies. Thank you all so very much. Thank you. We are prepared for anything North Korea does. We’ve had — we’ve thought through how we would respond to whatever they do. And so, I am not concerned, if that’s what you’re suggesting. 
Well, thank you. My whole name. Thank you all very much. Good afternoon, everyone. I said last night — let me reiterate: It’s been wonderful, wonderful to host you all in the first-ever U.S-ASEAN Summit in Washington, D.C. And besides, Mr. President, the food wasn’t bad. It was pretty good. We haven’t had — been ha- — been able to have, essentially, state dinners in a long time because of COVID. But thank you all for being there. We’re not only celebrating 45 years of partnership and friendship between ASEAN and the United States, we’re launching a new era — a new era in U.S.-ASEAN relations. Let me thank Prime Minister Hun Sen and — for the 22 — as the 2022 ASEAN Chair. And President Widodo, I want to thank you as well — the Country Coordinator for ASEAN and U.S. Dialogue Relations — and — and for all the hard work to make this summit, I believe — I hope you believe — a success. Over the past two days, we’ve spent time with members of –you — you’ve spent time with members of Congress, the American business community. You just finished a good session with the Vice President. And you’ve met with a number of our Cabinet members. And I wanted you to be as exposed as you could and understand there’s enthusiasm — that it’s not just at the President’s level and the Vice President’s level, but throughout the entire administration — for this relationship and — and bettering it. You know, discussions have covered a broad range of critical issues, including working together to keep the fight against COVID under control and to take climate action. And by the way, I see Secretary Kerry down there. And, John, thanks for letting me into your old house. Appreciate it. John has forgotten about — more about, in my view, the needs we have for climate security than anyone that I know. Thanks, John, for being here. I want to talk about that a little bit as we go into this here — in this — the rest of the day. Discussions have covered a broad range of critical issues, including working together to keep up the fight against COVID-19; to take climate action and pursue a clean energy future; build a sustainable, high-standard infrastructure; and to expand access to education; enhance maritime cooperation. And — and the breadth of our discussions reflect just how vital the Indo-Pacific and ASEAN region are to the United States of America, from our perspective. And a great deal of history — the great deal of history of our world in the next 50 years is going to be written and the ASEAN countries and our relationship with you is the future in the coming years and decades. The ASEAN centrality is the very heart of my administration’s strategy in pursuing the future we all want to see. And I mean that sincerely. The — the Indo-Pacific is an Indo-Pacific that is free and open, stable and prosperous, and resilient and secure. It’s what we’re all seeking. And that’s why I asked President Harris to travel to the region last August. And that’s why, last October, at our virtual summit, I announced $100 million to support — for programs to strengthen U.S.-ASEAN cooperation. And today, I’m announcing another $150 million of initiatives to deepen U.S.-ASEAN relations and achieve more — our — even better our shared objectives from the Coast Guard to climate change to — to modern infrastructure. There’s a whole range of things that we have to work on. And I’m also proud to announce that I have nominated one of my closest advisors to be U.S. Ambassador to ASEAN: Yohannes Abraham. I know you’ve already all seen him. But, Yohannes, you got to come back once in a while and say hi to us. Yohannes served as the Chief of Staff of the National Security Council since the first day of my administration. And so, this is a fellow who I’m a little concerned to send in because he knows how I think. You know, I mean, he knows so much about me, I’m a little worried. But all kidding aside, he is — I think you’re going to find him completely knowledgeable and he speaks for — will speak for me and speak for my administration. Yohannes is — I wish him luck. He’s a — he’s the key reason why I think we — this summit has been the success it has. I presume to believe you believe as I do: It has been a success thus far. And he’ll be a trusted representative and — to continue deepening this critical partnership among all of us. We’re committed to a future where the rules and norms that have made possible so much growth and prosperity and stability in the Indo-Pacific are upheld and strengthened, including respect for the rule of law and for human rights. This is something that benefits all one billion of the people who live in our countries, from the United States and all of you. And as we look around the world — all the challenges we’re facing — the ASEAN-U.S. partnership is critical, I think, to meeting the moment we find ourselves in history right now. And so, let me thank you again for making the journey to Washington to celebrate the enduring friendship we share and to look ahead at all that I believe — we all believe — we can accomplish together and how much more we can do. We’ll continue to elevate this partnership and strengthen our cooperation and to make a better, safer, and more prosperous world for all our children. So, thank you, thank you. Thank you very much. 4:22 P.M. EDT
Hello, everyone. Thank you for joining together for the second Global COVID-19 Summit. You know, and a special thank you to the leaders of Belize, Germany, Indonesia, Senegal for — for cohosting this summit with the United States. Today, we’re again uniting countries around the world with leaders from the private sector, civil society, and the philanthropic community to carry forward the vital work on fighting COVID-19 everywhere — not just at home, everywhere. You know, when we met last, in September, we were focused on critical and urgent challenges. And I’m incredibly proud of the work that have — that we’ve done together over the last several months and the commitments that we made — have made to — to vaccinate the world. You know, for our part, the United States has provided more than $19 billion to help countries fight COVID-19 all around the world. We’ve provided lifesaving medicines, oxygen, tests, equipment, supplies, and partnered with countries to improve their capacity to manufacture vaccines as well. We’ve delivered more than 500 million vaccines to 115 different countries. And we’re going to continue to work with COVAX to deliver another 500 million doses — all part of the pledge we made to donate 1 billion doses of vaccine to the most vulnerable in the world. You know, all — you know, all this is completely free. No — no strings attached. But, you know, there’s still so much left to do. This pandemic isn’t over. Today, we mark a tragic milestone here in the United States: one million COVID deaths, one million empty chairs around the family dinner table — each irreplaceable. Irreplaceable losses, each leaving behind a family, a community forever changed because of this pandemic. My heart goes out to all of those who are struggling, asking themselves, “How do I go on without him?” “How do I go on without her?” “What will we do without them?” It’s grief shared by people across all of our nations. Around the world, many more millions have died. Millions of children have been orphaned. And with thousands still dying every day, now is the time for us to act — all of us — together. We all must do more. We must honor those we have lost by doing everything we can to prevent as many deaths as possible. Today, we’re at a new stage in fighting this pandemic, facing an evolving set of challenges. We have to double down on our efforts to get to — get shots in people’s arms, country by country, community by community; ensure we have reliable and predictable supplies of vaccines and boosters for everyone, everywhere; expand access globally to tests and treatments; and we have to prevent complacency. This summit is an opportunity to renew our efforts, to keep our foot on the gas when it comes to getting this pandemic under control and preventing future health crises. Collectively, we are making significant new commitments to help keep up the fight against COVID-19 in 2022, protect the most vulnerable populations, and prepare for the next health crisis, because there will be others. You know, and the United States is going to continue to do our part. Today I’m announcing the United States will share critical COVID-19 technologies through the World Health Organization COVID-19 Technology Access Pool. We’re making available health technologies that are owned by the United States government, including stabilized spike protein that is used in many COVID-19 vaccines. We’re standing up a new pilot program, working with the Global Fund, to expand access to rapid testing and antiviral treatments for people in harder-to-reach areas. And we’re increasing our support for a new Pandemic Preparedness and Global Health Security fund that will be established at the World Bank this summer with $450 million in seed funding. I particularly want to commend Indonesia and Italy for their leadership in helping make this fund a reality. And I’m encouraging other leaders to join me in — in upping their commitments. You know, we’re going to face, together, global health crises. This is not the last one we’ve had. It’s not a question of “if,” it’s a question of “when.” So we have to invest now. Now. We have to secure political commitments now. We have to start working to prevent the next variant and the next pandemic now. And that’s — and, you know, that’s going to require all of us — all of us to do more. I encourage every leader to ask yourself, “What more can I do? How can we work more closely together to help more people? How can we save more lives?” That’s why I continue to call on Congress here at home to take the urgent action to provide emergency COVID-19 funding that is vital to protect Americans, to make sure we’re — that we maintain our — our supplies of COVID-19 tests, treatments, and vaccines, including next-generation vaccines that are being developed. The request also includes $5 billion to keep up our global partnership in the fight against COVID-19 and sustain our efforts to get ever- — get shots in people’s arms all around the world, expand access to treatment, and save lives everywhere. We can do this. We can control COVID-19. We can start to build a better, healthier, and more secure future today if we all do our part and if we step up together. So thank you for responding to this fight. And most especially, thank you for all the doctors, nurses, and community health workers, and scientists, and aid workers, and anyone and everyone on the frontlines fighting this pandemic, saving lives every single day. We owe you. Thank you. And God bless you all. END
Well, welcome, folks. Today I’m joined by Senator Cardin — Ben Cardin; Elissa Slotkin; and the Congresswoman Victoria Spatz — Spartz, excuse me, who — I was just talking to her about still having family back in Ukraine. God love you. I — we’re going to — I’m about to sign a bill that these folks are responsible — and, of course, the Vice President, excuse me. Excuse me. The — I’m signing a bill that provides another important tool in our efforts to support the government of Ukraine and the Ukrainian people in their fight to defend their country and their democracy against Putin’s brutal war. And it is brutal. I want to thank members of Congress here for getting this passed and everyone who supported the bill. And the bill demonstrates that support for Ukraine is pivotal at this moment. Every day, Ukrainians pay with their lives, and they fight along — and the atrocities that the Russians are engaging in are just beyond the pale. And the cost of the fight is not cheap, but caving to aggression is even more costly. That’s why we’re staying in this. Yesterday, we celebrated VE Day — Victory in Europe Day — marking the end of a transition of the devastation as a consequence of World War Two and Allied nations’ defeat of the scourge of fascism in Europe. And today, Europe is honoring another important day on the anniversary. On May 9th, 1950, just years after the end of World War Two, Europe began to work to strengthen the bonds of unity among the nations, particularly the economic unity and the shared economic prosperity. The idea ultimately grew into the — what is now a 27-nation European Union — an economic powerhouse and a global force for peace and close partners of all — on all the issues we face. And it really has — I’ve said from the very beginning: It’s — it’s something that is good for everyone. It brings these countries together in ways that — and they cooperate closely economically. They also cooperate in other ways. And you’ve seen it in their support for Ukraine. And with Putin’s war once more bringing wanton destruction into Europe, and to — to reaffirm the enduring commitment to the future grounded in democracy, human rights, and peaceful resolution to disagreements, I’m now going to sign this bill. And again, I thank my colleagues who are standing behind me. And — because it really matters. It matters. There you go. Done. Thank you.
I tell you what, Linda: If I were CEO of this company, I’d be worried. Well, good afternoon, everybody. And thank you, Jim, for the invitation to be here today and, Linda, for the warm welcome today. And Congressman Sewell — -woman Sewell, thank you for all you do for the people of this state and the country and for your friendship — our friendship. I wanted to come down to Alabama to make sure that the American people know what workers at this — And, by the way, if you have a seat, please take it. By the way, sometimes — the press is always fair with me, but once — every once in a while, I make a mistake — not like — well, once a speech. But, at any rate, I — years ago, when I first started talking to this — for this job, I said, “Please take your seats.” There weren’t any seats. Everyone was standing. There were no chairs. So, I just wanted to make sure I checked whether you had seats. Look, the American people know what workers at this facility are doing and support — to support Ukraine’s fight for freedom. And the bottom line is I came to say thank you, thank you, thank you. That’s the reason I’m here. I’ve been on those battlefields where these missiles are fired, and I spent a lot of time going in and out of Iraq and Afghanistan — maybe a total of 40 times. And I tell you what: You’re — and I’ve been in Ukraine a lot prior to the war and on the border since the war. And it’s — it’s amazing what you’ve done. We see on the news every single day the atrocities and the war crimes that are being committed by Russian forces in Ukraine, directed by Vladimir Putin. And it really is gut-wrenching. We see the incredible bravery of the Ukrainian fighters defending their country from ev- — with everything they have. And, by the way, it’s not just their warriors. It’s not just their military. It’s people in the street — people in the street, staying behind. A lot have gotten out — 5 million — but a lot are staying, including women as well as men, staying to fight for their country. And — and we know that the United States is leading our Allies and partners around the world to make sure that courageous Ukrainians who are fighting for the future of their nation have the weapons and the capacity and ammunition and equipment to defend themselves against Putin’s brutal war. A lot of war crimes being committed. But what we don’t — what we don’t see — we don’t always see — is the work that so much of — that makes so much of this possible. And that’s you. It’s not hyperbole. It’s you. You make it possible. You make it possible for them to have a shot. You know, during World War Two, the United States was known as the arsenal of democracy. There was Rosie the Riveter — who I actually got to meet, quite frankly, before she passed away — and a lot of people who, in fact, kept the — kept it going. I was — a slight digression — I went over for the 50th anniversary of the — the end of World War Two. And I was in Normandy, and I went up afterwards with the — to the cemetery. And I was walking by myself. And it’s — it’s incredible. It’s immaculate. It’s perfectly manicured, and the headstones are all the same. I looked down one row, and I saw three names — same names. A father and two sons who had died in the landing. And I was bent down, and I was reading the dates of their birth. And all of a sudden, I heard behind me, “Attention!” And I turned around and there was a gentleman who had to be in his early 80s, in a wheelchair, being wheeled by his son who — big guy — looked like Hoss Cartwright — and his — and his wife and one of their — and a daughter. And he saluted me, so I saluted him, and — at the time. And I turned around, and I said, “Thank you for what you did. Thank you for saving — literally saving civilization.” And he put his hand on his wife’s — his wife — his hand was on her shoulder. And he said, “No, no. She did it. She did it.” And I looked at her, and he said, “She built the landing craft that got us in here. She and her friends — they’re the ones that did it.” And he went on. And he filled up. And all of a sudden, it dawned on me: You’re doing it. You really are doing it. You’re making a gigantic difference for these poor sons of guns who are under such enormous, enormous pressure and firepower. Those Javelins I saw — there’s 10 for every tank that there is in Ukraine right now. You’re changing people’s lives. We built the weapons — no, you really do. But we built the weapons and the equipment that helped defend freedom and sovereignty in Europe years ago. But that’s true again today. You know, some of the best, most effective weapons in our arsenal are those Javelin missiles, like the ones manufactured right here in Pike County. They’re highly portable. They’re extremely effective against a wide range of armored targets. They can hit targets up to 400 meters away and have a “fire-and-forget” capability. That means the person firing can — and I know you know it, but for anybody who may be listening — can change positions or take cover before that Javelin even strikes home and strikes the target. In fact, they’ve been so important there’s even a story about Ukrainian parents naming their children — not a joke — their newborn child “Javelin” or “Javelina.” Not a joke. So, the brave people of Ukraine, including the many civilians who have taken up arms to defend their country, deserve every ounce of credit for pushing back the Russian assault and frustrating Putin’s desire to dominate Ukraine. We’re at an inflection point in history, for real — it comes along about every six or eight generations — where things are changing so rapidly that we have to be in control. Folks, there’s an ongoing battle in the world between autocracy and democracy. Xi Jinping, the leader of China, who I’ve talked — I’ve spent more time with than any other world leader has — over 78 hours on the — either in person or on the telephone with him. And the fact of the matter is he just is straightforward about it. He says that democracies cannot be sustained in the 21st century. Not a joke. They cannot be sustained — because things are moving so rapidly, democracies require consensus, and it’s hard to get consensus, therefore they can’t keep up with an autocracy — one-man rule. But that’s not going to be the case. If that happens, the whole world changes. And because of you — in this first, really, battle, if you will — for that to determine whether that’s going to happen is because you’re making it possible. You’re making it possible for the Ukrainian people to defend themselves without us having to risk getting in a third world war by sending in American soldiers fighting Russian soldiers. My dad used to have an expression. He’d say, “The only war worse than one that’s intended is one that’s unintended.” You’re allowing the Ukrainians to defend themselves. And, quite frankly, they’re making fools of the Russian military in many instances. A big part of the reason they’ve been able to keep on fighting and to make this war a strategic failure for Russia is because the United States, together with our Allies and partners, have had their back. The United States alone has committed more than 5,500 Javelins to Ukraine. You’re changing the nation. You really are. Add to that significant supplies from our Allies and partners, as well as many thousands of other anti-tank and anti-air weapons, helicopters, armored vehicles, artillery, coastal defense systems. Before Russia attacked, we made sure Russia had Javelins and other weapons to strengthen their defenses so Ukraine was ready for whatever happened. And in the last two months, we continued to move even more resources and equipment at a rapid pace into Ukraine. We’ve made sure that there are no interruptions in the flow of equipment to Ukraine. Since Russia invaded Ukraine just over two months ago, we have sent more than $3 billion in security assistance to Ukraine — alone, us — not counting our Allies. And that money is a direct investment in defending freedom and democracy itself. Because if you don’t stand up to dictators, history has shown us they keep coming. They keep coming. Their appetite for power continues to grow. And every worker in this facility and every American taxpayer is directly contributing to the case for freedom. And that’s something we can all be incredibly proud of, in my view. Last week, I sent Congress — if you excuse a point of personal privilege, talking like an old senator — but I sent a supplemental budget — a fancy way of saying we need more money — to make sure the United States can continue to send weapons directly to the frontlines of freedom in Ukraine and to continue to provide economic and humanitarian assistance to help the Ukrainian people. And I urge the Congress to pass this funding quickly to help Ukraine continue to succeed against Russian aggression, just as they did when they won the Battle of Kyiv, and to make sure the United States and our Allies can replenish our own stocks of weapons to replace what we’ve sent to Ukraine. As I said from the beginning, this fight is not going to be cheap, but caving to aggression would even be more costly. We either back the Ukrainian people as they defend their country or stand by as Russia continues its atrocities and aggression. I know what my answer is, and I think you all do too. I bet I know what the answer of this plant is. There’s something else here that — to be understand. Being the arsenal of democracy also means good-paying jobs for American workers in Alabama and the states all across America where defense equipment is manufactured and assembled. Two hundred and sixty-five people here at this plant are directly employed working on the Javelin program. All told, Lockheed Martin has brought nearly 3,000 jobs to Alabama. The Armed Forces of the United States of America is going to continue to be the best-armed, most capable fighting force in the history of the world. In order to do that, we have to make sure our vital defense supplies are getting the inputs and supplies they need to produce and protect and provide the full capacity. I learned on the tour today that each of the Javelins you produce includes more than 200 semiconductors. I’ve been a broken record, as the press will tell you, on our need to be able to produce more semiconductors in the United States. We invented the sucker, going to the moon — we, the United States. We’re the one that modernized it. We’ve done more than anybody else. But guess what? We stopped investing in ourselves. We stopped investing in ourselves. And so, now we’re back in the game, making sure that we become — we become the primary producer of those semiconductors — computer chips that power much of our modern lives. They’re in our phones, our cars, almost anything that has an on/off switch. And the semiconductor is critical to defense production capacity, as you — you all know better than I do. That’s why we are making it as hard as we can for Russia to get a hold of semiconductors and advanced technologies that it could use to upgrade its military during this conflict, and why we’re taking steps to make it easier to source what we need here in the United States during a global semiconductor shortage. And just one more — there is just one more reason why Congress has to act quickly to provide the emergency funding for the so-called CHIPS Act by passing the broader Bipartisan Innovation Act so we can produce tens of millions of these chips. There is something we have to focus on and something I’ve focused on from my earliest days of our administration: I’m determined to make sure the United States holds the technological high ground in competition with other nations, especially China, as we move forward. Folks, you know, we — we used to invest, as a nation, years ago — 35 years ago, we invested 2 percent of our entire GDP in research and development. We do half of that now. We do half of that. We used to be number one in the world. Now we’re number 13 in the world. My administration — we’re changing that. The United States used to own the innovation field. In fact, it was a Department of research program that established DARPA. It was the first development of an anti-tank missile with advanced infrared guidance systems that culminated in today’s Javelin. The Bipartisan Innovation Act is going to help reverse decades-long decline in federal research and development investment. And it should create and support entire families, and expand U.S. manufacturing and strengthen our national security. Where in God’s name is it written that the United States can no longer be a leading manufacturer in the world? We’ve created, just in the last 17 months, 465,000 permanent manufacturing jobs in America. We have the best workers, the most competent employees, the best science in the world. And by funding the CHIPS Act, we’re going to ensure the semiconductors that power the economy and our national security are made here in America again. Today, all — all the world’s most advanced chips are made overseas. But the events of the past few years have proven beyond a doubt that America’s security should never be held hostage to events overseas — not a pandemic, not a war, not the politics of — ambition, or other countries. Fundamentally, there’s a national — this is a national security issue. This is one of the reasons why the Chinese Communist Party is lobbying folks to oppose this bill. And it’s an issue that unites Democrats and Republicans. So, let’s get it done. Let’s get it done. In her introduction, Linda said she personally touched every single solitary Javelin — 50,000 — that had been manufactured in this plant 20 years ago. I was worried to shake your hand. I thought you may — I might be electrocuted. But that’s where they start: right here with American skill, American craftsmanship, American patriotism. And just a few days ago, the Wall Street Journal quoted a young Hungarian fighter saying, and I quote, “Without the Javelins, it would have been very hard to stop the enemy pushing ahead.” End of quote. So these weapons, touched by the hands — your hands — are in the hands of Ukrainian heroes, making a significant difference. And that’s something each and every day you could and should be proud of. And I’m once more urging Congress to quickly pass the supplemental funding bill for over $300 billion to help the Ukrainians so they can keep — they can keep all of the very, very — all of you very, very busy for a while here. So, again, let me end where I began. I came for a basic reason, from the bottom of my heart: to say thank you. Thank you, thank you, thank you for what you do. Thank you for what you continue to do. Unless you go out in the field and see it, you don’t realize what a difference you’re making. May God bless you all. And may God protect our troops. Thank you so much. 2:20 P.M. CDT
Hello, everybody. Good morning. I just signed a request to Congress for critical security, economic, and humanitarian assistance to help Ukraine continue to counter Putin’s aggression and — at a very pivotal moment. We need this bill to support Ukraine in its fight for freedom. And our NATO Allies, our EU partners — they’re going to pay their fair share of the costs as well, but we have to do this. We have to do our part as well, leading the Alliance. The cost of this fight is not cheap, but caving to aggression is going to be more costly if we allow it to happen. We either back the Ukrainian people as they defend their country or we stand by as the Russians continue their atrocities and aggression in Ukraine. Every day — every day, the Ukrainians pay for the — a price with — and the price they pay is with their lives for this fight. So, we need to contribute arms, funding, ammunition, and the economic support to make their courage and sacrifice have purpose so they can continue this fight and do what they’re doing. It’s critical this funding gets approved and approved as quickly as possible. You know, long before Russia lost i- — launched its brutal invasion, I — I made clear how the United States would respond. I predicted they would invade, and they surely did. We said we’d not send U.S. troops to fight Russian troops in Ukraine, but we would provide robust military assistance and try to unify the Western world against Russia’s aggression. I said I would impose powerful sanctions on Russia and that we’d destroy and develop — we’d destroy this myth that somehow they could continue to move without the rest of the world acting; that we’d deploy additional forces to defend NATO territory, particularly in the east, along the Russian and Belarus borders. That’s exactly — that’s exactly what we said we would do, and we did. But despite the disturbing rhetoric coming out of the Kremlin, the facts are plain for everybody to see. We’re not attacking Russia; we’re helping Ukraine defend itself against Russian aggression. And just as Putin chose to launch this brutal invasion, he could make the choice to end this brutal invasion. Russia is the aggressor. No if, ands, or buts about it. Russia is the aggressor. And the world must and will hold Russia accountable. Russia’s continued assault on — is yielding immense human costs. We’ve seen — we’ve seen them leave behind horrifying evidence of their atrocities and war crimes in the areas they tried to control. And as long as the assaults and atrocities continue, we’re going to continue to supply military assistance. And I might note, parenthetically: You know, there’s a dinner this weekend to celebrate the press. Think of what the American press has done — the courage it has taken to stay in these warzones, the courage it has taken to report every single day. I’ve always had respect for the press, but I can’t tell you how much respect I have watching — watching them in these zones where they’re under fire, risking their own lives to make sure the world hears the truth. Imagine if we weren’t getting that information. It’d be a different world. It’d be a different circumstance. In the past two months, Russia launched its brutal attack and has moved weapons and equipment to Ukraine at — we’ve moved — we’ve moved weapons and equipment to Ukraine at record speed. Thanks to the aid we’ve provided, Russian forces have been forced to retreat from Kyiv. It doesn’t mean they’re not going to try to come back, but they’ve retreated thus far. We’ve sent thousands of anti-armor, anti- missiles, helicopters, drones, grenade launchers, machine guns, rifles, radar systems, more than 50 million rounds of ammunition. The United States alone has provided 10 anti-armor systems for every Russian tank that is in Ukraine — 10 to 1. We’re providing Ukraine significant, timely intelligence to help them defend themselves against the Russian onslaught. And we’re facilitating a significant flow of weapons and systems to Ukraine from our Allies and partners around the world, including tanks, artillery, and other weapons. That support is moving with unprecedented speed. Much — much of the new equipment we’ve announced in the past two mon- — two weeks has already gotten to Ukraine, where it can be put to direct use on the battlefield. However, we have almost exhausted what we call — the fancy phrase — the “drawdown authority” that Congress authorized Ukraine — authorized for Ukraine in a bipartisan spending bill last month. Basically, we’re out of money. And so, that’s why today, in order to sustain Ukraine as it — as it continues to fight, I’m sending Congress a supplemental budget request. It’s going to keep weapons and ammunition flowing without interruption to the brave Ukrainian fighters and continue delivering economic and humanitarian assistance to the Ukrainian people. This so-called supplemental funding addresses the needs of the Ukrainian military during the crucial weeks and months ahead. And it begins — it begins to transition to longer-term security assistance that’s going to help Ukraine deter and continue to defend against Russian aggression. This assistance would provide even more artillery, armored vehicles, anti-armor systems, anti-air capabilities that have been used so effectively thus far on the battlefield by the Ukrainian warriors. You know, and it’s going to deliver much-needed humanitarian assistance as well as food, water, medicines, shelter, and other aid to Ukrainians displaced by Russia’s war, and provide aid to those seeking refuge in other countries from Ukraine. It’s also going to help schools and hospitals open. It’s going to allow pensions and social support to be paid to the Ukrainian people so they have something — something in their pocket. It’s also going to provide critical resources to address food shortages around the globe. Ukraine — Ukraine was one of the world’s largest agriculture producers. It typically grows 10 percent of all the wheat that’s shipped around the world. Putin has asserted sanctions are blocking food from Ukraine and Russia getting on the market — the sanctions we’ve imposed on Russia. Simply not true. Putin’s war, not sanctions, are impacting the harvest of food and disrupting the movement of that food by land and sea to nations around the globe that need it. This funding is going to help ease rising food prices at home as well, and abroad, caused by Russia’s war in Ukraine. It’s going to help support American farmers produce more crops like wheat and oilseed, which is good for rural America, good for the American consumer, and good for the world. And this supplemental request will use the Defense Production Act to expand domestic production and reserve — and the reserve of critical materials — materials like nickel and lithium that have been disrupted by Putin’s war in Ukraine and that are necessary to make everything from defense systems to automobiles. And I hope Congress — I hope Congress will move on this funding quickly. I believe they will. I want to thank Congress — Democrats and Republicans — for their support of the people of Ukraine. And next week, I will be in Alabama to visit a Lockheed Martin plant that manufactures the Javelin anti-tank missile we’ve been sending to Ukraine, and to thank the American workers — thank them — for producing the weapons that helped stop Russia’s advances in Ukrainian cities like Kyiv. Their hard work has played a critical role in ensuring Putin’s strategic failure in Ukraine, and they should know that we know it. In addition to this supplemental funding, I’m also sending to Congress a comprehensive package of — that will enhance our underlying effort to accommodate the Russian oligarchs and make sure we take their — take their ill-begotten gains. Ha, we’re going to “accommodate” them. We’re going to seize their yachts, their luxury homes, and other ill-begotten gains of Putin’s kleptoc- — yeah — kleptocracy and klep- — the guys who are the kleptocracies. But these are bad guys. This legislative package strengthens our law enforcement capabilities to seize property linked to Russia’s kleptocracy. It’s going to create new, expedited procedures for forfeiture and seizure of these — of these properties. And it’s going to ensure that when the oligarchs’ assets are sold off, funds can be used directly to remedy the harm Russia caused in their help — and help build Ukraine. Additionally, yesterday, Ru- — Russia threatened two of our Allies with a cut-off of energy supplies. While America has ended all Russian fossil fuel imports because we are able to use our vast support — supply of power in our country, some European countries have faced more challenges in reducing their reliance on Russian fuel. Russia has long claimed to be, quote, “the reliable source of energy” for the world. No matter what the differences are, their customers are always going to be — be in good shape. But these actions prove that energy is not just a commodity that Russia sells to help meet other countries’ needs, but a weapon it will use to deploy against those who stand against their aggression. So, let me be clear: We will not let Russia intimidate or blackmail their way out of these sanctions. We will not allow them to use their oil and gas to avoid consequences for their aggression. We’re working with other nations — like Korea, Japan, Qatar, and others — to support our effort to help the European allies threatened by Russia with gas blackmail and their energy needs in other ways. Aggression will not win. Threats will not win. This is just another reminder of the imperative for Europe and the world to move more and more of our power needs to clean energy. In the United States, we’re doing that right now. Last year, we developed more solar, wind, and battery storage than any year in our history — enough to power 56 million American homes. Earlier this month, we acted to bolster the — our reli- –the reliance on our nuclear energy facilities, which generates more than half of our carbon-free power. And we’re just getting started. I look at this as a serious problem, but also an enormous opportunity — an opportunity. Bottom line: All these actions we’ve been taking are about the truth — this truth: Investing in Ukraine’s freedom and security is a small price to pay to punish Russian aggression, to lessen the risk of future conflicts. You know, throughout our history, we’ve learned that when dictators do not pay the price for their aggression, they cause more chaos and engage in more aggression. They keep moving. And the costs, the threats to America and the world keep rising. We can’t let this happen. Our unity at home, our unity with our Allies and partners, and our unity with the Ukrainian people is sending an unmistakable message to Putin: You will never succeed in dominating Ukraine. Finally, we’re going to continue to deliver critical support to Ukraine. We must also not let our guard down in our fight against COVID-19 at home and abroad. That’s why I’m, again, urging Congress to act on my request for $22.5 billion in emergency resources so the American people can continue to protect themselves from COVID-19. The reason we were so successful in the past is because I was able to work with drug manufacturers to order significant quantities of material we needed ahead of time to get in the front of the line. Without additional funding, we can’t preorder the amount of vaccines we need, and we risk losing our spot in line for vaccines that target multiple variants. We’re running out of supply for therapeutics like antiviral pills that we desperately need. Without additional funding, we’re unable to purchase the lifesaving treatment for the American people. We’ve donated more vaccines and treatments to the world than all other nations in the world combined. If the U.S. won’t do it, no one else is really going to step up and do it. Without additional funding, the United States won’t be able to help stop the spread around the world and close off ongoing suppor- — sources of the supply chain disruptions. Look, let’s get both of these critical tasks done. No delays, no excuses, just action now. Now. Thank you all. Thank you. We have made a direct means by which they can get from Europe, from Ukraine, directly to the United States, without going through the southern border. In the meantime, in the southern border, we’re trying to work through and make sure they — it’s an orderly process, they’re able to get in. But just so you know, we have said there’s no need to go to the southern border; fly directly to the United States. We set up a mechanism whereby they can come directly with a visa. They’re not true. They do concern me because it shows the desperation that Russia is feeling about their abject failure in being able to do what they set out to do in the first instance. And so, it — I think it’s more of a reflection not of the truth but of their failure. And so, instead of saying that the — the Ukrainians, equipped with some capability to resist Russian forces, are doing this, they’ve got to say — tell their people the United States and all of NATO is engaged in — in taking out Russian troops and tanks, et cetera. So, it’s — number one, it’s an excuse for their failure. But number two, it’s also, if they really mean it, it’s — it’s — no — no one should be making idle comments about the use of nuclear weapons or the possibility that they’d use that. It’s irresponsible. First of all, as you know, Poland has indicated they have significant reserves of gas that they have planned for, as does — not as much, but as does Bulgaria. And we have worked with our allies, from Japan on, to say that we may divert our sale of the natural gas that we’re sending to those countries and divert it directly to Poland and Bulgaria. So, I — you know, that’s the most I can tell you right now. Well, I don’t care how they tie — how they do it. I’m sending them both up. I mean, I — they can do it separately or together. But we need them both.
Freedom endures against all odds in the face of every aggressor because there are always those who will fight for that freedom. And in the 20th and 21st century, freedom had no greater champion than Madeleine Korbel Albright. Anne, Alice, Katie — your mom was a force — a force of nature. With her goodness and grace, her humanity, and her intellect, she turned the tide of history. David, Daniel, Jack, Jake, Ben, and Ellie — you’re too young to remember this, but when the Iron Curtain fell and the Berlin Wall came down, our world faced one of those inflection points — a once-in-a-generation moment of upheaval but opportunity as well. People and nations around the world were deciding the future they wanted to make for themselves. And your grandmother — your grandmother — as Madam Ambassador and as the first female Secretary of State in American history, made sure those nations and those people knew exactly where the United States of America stood — and what we stood for. You know, and all through it, her beloved sister Kathy and her brother John can attest, she never forgot where she came from or who she was. President Obama, President and Secretary Clinton, Vice President Al Gore, members of Congress, Cabinet members past and present: Today, we honor a truly proud American who made all of us prouder to be Americans. I also want to welcome the distinguished guests and dignitaries who have traveled from around the world to celebrate a daughter of the Czech Republic who knew — who knew what it meant to endure war and flee persecution. With her friend Vaclav Havel — when he died, I remember, when Madeleine eulogized him, she used these words, and I quote, “He cast light into places of deepest darkness and reminded us constantly of our obligations to one another.” These words — these words apply equally to Madeleine. When I got word that Madeleine had passed, I was in mid-air on my way to Europe to meet with our NATO Allies in Brussels to help try to continue to keep the — the strong, strong alliances together — our organization and international response to Russia’s brutal and unjustifiable war against Ukraine. And it was not lost on me that Madeleine was a big part of the reason NATO was still strong and galvanized, as it is today. And a few days later, I traveled to Poland and spoke about all that is at stake in our world and for democracy and freedom — which is under assault from forces of autocracy and oppression. Many are tired of hearing me say I think we’re at another inflection point in world history, where there is literally a severe contra- — confrontation between autocrats and democratic nations. President Clinton — Bill, it was not lost on me that you spoke at the same Warsaw Castle that I was about to speak at 25 years earlier. In my case, it was evening. The interior of the castle — a beautiful courtyard — holds about 5-, 600 people. And mostly Poles and Ukrainians were present when I spoke. And I’m sure many in the audience spoke English, though likely not their first language. But when I mentioned the name — they were respectful of what I was saying — but when I mentioned the name of Madeleine Albright, there was a deafening cheer. They all stopped everything and started to cheer. It was spontaneous. It was real. For her name is still synonymous with America as a force for good in the world. Madeleine never minced words or wasted time when she saw something that needed fixing or someone who needed helping. She just got to work. And as a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee from the time I was a kid — God, they were the good old days. I — I was the chairman or the ranking member for a good part of that time. And in the ‘90s, I can attest that Madeleine, with the significant help of the President of the United States, kept the committee really busy. In our work to halt genocide in the Balkans, support new democracies in Eastern and Central Europe, to develop Plan Colombia — in all of those undertakings, Madeleine was an incomparable ally and advisor beyond the President to me and to others on the committee. She always had a knack for explaining to the American people why it mattered to them that people everywhere in the world were struggling to breathe free. And Madeleine didn’t stop when she left government. For decades, she was a nexus of the foreign policy community, always — and I mean always — on top of the latest developments, always speaking out for democracy, and always the first to sound the alarm about fascism. Presidents and leaders around the world continued to solicit her advice, including me. When I asked her last year to chair the Defense Policy Board, she built businesses. She pumped out New York Times bestsellers that were both highly prescient and deeply salient — and constantly bestsellers. I think I’ve read them all. You know, and she — and she mentored generations of rising foreign policy experts — the, quote, “foreign policy establishment.” You know — and the thing that I noted that was deliberate and remarkable about her — not unlike Secretary Clinton — was that she made sure that young women knew they belonged at every single table having to do with national security, without exception. Today, across our government and around the world, Madeleine’s protégés are legion. Many are here today, each carrying within them a spark lit by her passion and her brilliance. I think part of the reason why Madeleine was such a successful diplomat was that she understood something I’ve always believed. And my boss, President Obama, when I was Vice President, used to kid me because I’d repeat so often, because I believed she understood something I’ve always believed: that all politics, especially international politics, is personal. It all, ultimately, is personal. She could go toe to toe with the toughest dictators, then turn around and literally teach a fellow ambassador how to do the macarena on the floor of the U.N. Security Council. You all think I’m kidding. I’m not kidding. She thought it was too difficult to teach me how to dance, though. She was right. No matter where she was, she understood people. She cared about people. And all of that was grounded in an education gained by watching her father, Josef Korbel — and her mentor as well. She learned diplomacy at the dinner table. And throughout her life, nothing mattered to Madeleine more than the family — nothing. Madeleine had the same rule that I do and others here do: No matter what’s happening in my day — as President Obama can tell you — or who I’m meeting with, if one of my children calls, I take the call. She was the same way. Anne, Alice, Katie, and her grandchildren — each of you — each of you is literally a tribute to her enormous — to her enormous capacity to love. I know it’s hard, but I promise you: She’s always with you — in your mind, in your heart, and part of your soul. And I promise you: You’re going to have a tough decision, and you’re going to be asking yourself, “What would she want me to do?” Not a joke. Remember I said it. That’s going to happen. And, Kathy and John, the connection the three of you maintained through your lives was always an anchor to Madeleine through all the ups and downs of life. What a gift. What a gift. What a family. You know, from that first trans-Atlantic crossing on the SS America, to landing in nations around the world in that big blue-and-white plane emblazoned with the words “United States of America,” Madeleine understood her story was America’s story. Her story was America’s story. She loved to speak about America as the “indispensable nation.” To her, the phrase was never a statement of arrogance. It was about gratitude for all this country made possible for her. It was a testament to her belief in the endless possibilities that only America could help unlock around the world and to her understanding of what American power could achieve when it was united with and motivated by enduring American values. That’s why there was nothing she loved more than swearing in new citizens to this great nation of ours. She’d light up, reminding them that she had once stood where they stood. Having gained the blessings of liberty, she wanted nothing more than to share them around the globe. To Madeleine, from my prospective, there was no higher mission, no greater honor than to serve this great experiment in freedom known as the United States of America. May her memory continue to be a blessing to our nation, and may we remember her words and her deeds. May she always be a light to all those in the darkest places — a reminder of our obligation to one another. May God bless Madeleine Albright. 11:47 A.M. EDT
Good morning, everyone. Sorry to keep you waiting a little bit. I had the honor of spending some time with the Ukrainian Prime Minister, who’s in town today. And he is meeting with some of my Cabinet members, including the Secretary of Treasury and others. And we had a — a good discussion. I talked about what I’m about to tell you about today, as well as — he was thanking the American people for their support, understands it’s significant, and was — we talked about keeping everyone together, in terms of Europe, the European Union, and others, in the effort to stop Putin’s brutality. But before I head out to the West Coast, I want to quickly update the American people on the latest steps we’re taking to support the people of Ukraine and to hold Putin accountable for his brutal and bloody war. Russian forces have retreated from Kyiv, leaving behind them a horrifying evidence. And you’ve seen it and you reported it — your folks. And, by the way, I — I don’t say this often, but I think we should give enormous credit to the folks in your agencies that are on the ground in Ukraine, in these spots. And they’re — they’re really — I’ve spoken to several of them. It’s a — we owe them. But uncovering these evidences of their atrocities and war crimes against the Ukrainian people — it’s so clear to the whole world now. Now they’ve launched and refocused their campaign to seize new territory in eastern Ukraine. And we’re in a critical window now of time where that — they’re going to set the stage for the next phase of this war. And the United States and our Allies and partners are moving as fast as possible to continue to provide Ukraine the forces that they need — the weapons they need — excuse me — and the equipment they need — their forces need to defend their nation. Last week, I signed an $800 million package of security assistance to Ukraine that included new capabilities like artillery systems and armored personnel carriers — equipment that is responsive to Ukraine’s needs and tailored to support the intensified fighting in the Donbas region, which is a different war than in other places because both — topographically it’s different. It’s flat, it’s not in the mountains, and it requires different kinds of weapons to be more effective. Today, I’m announcing another $800 million to further augment Ukraine’s ability to fight in the east — in the Donbas region. This package includes heavy artillery weapons — dozens of Howitzers — and 144,000 rounds of ammunition to go with those Howitzers. It also includes more tactical drones. In the past two months, we’ve moved weapons and equipment to Ukraine at record speed. We’ve sent thousands of anti-armor and anti- missile, helicopters, drones, grenade launchers, machine guns, rifles, radar systems. More than 50 million rounds of ammunition had already been sent. The United States alone has provided 10 anti-armor systems for every one Russian tank that’s in Ukraine — a 10 to 1 ratio. We’re sharing and will continue to share significant, timely intelligence with Ukraine to help defend them against Russian aggression. And on top of this, these direct contributions from the United States, we’re facilitating; we’re the outfit facilitating the significant flow of weapons and systems to Ukraine from other Allies and partners around the world, like the S-300 long-range, anti-aircraft systems that Slovakia recently transferred to Ukraine. We are getting them in there. We won’t always be able to advertise everything we — that our partners are doing to support Ukraine in its fight for freedom. But to modernize Teddy Roosevelt’s famous advice: Sometimes we will speak softly and carry a large Javelin. Because we’re sending a lot of those in as well. You know, but we’re not — we’re not sitting on the funding that Congress has provided for Ukraine. We’re sending it directly to the frontlines of freedom, to the fearless and skilled Ukrainian fighters who are standing in the breach. You got to admit, you have — must be amazed at the courage of this country, the resolve that they’re showing, not just the milit- — their military, but the average citizen: men and women, young — young men, young women as well. It’s — you know, the sustained and coordinated support of the international community, led and facilitated by the United States, has a — is a significant reason why Ukraine is able to stop Russia from taking over their country thus far. Every American taxpayer, every member of our Armed Forces can be proud of the fact that our country’s generosity and the skill and service of our military helped arm and repel Russia’s aggression in Ukraine, to beat back Putin’s savagery that tried to seize Ukraine’s capital and wipe out Ukraine’s government. The Battle of Kyiv was a historic victory for the Ukrainians. It was a victory for freedom, won by the Ukrainian people with unprecedented assistance by the United States and our Allies and our partners. Now — now we have to accelerate that assistance package to help prepare Ukraine for Russia’s offensive that’s going to be more limited in terms of geography, but not in terms of brutality — not in terms of brutality. Combined with our recent drawdowns, it will ensure a steady flow of weapons and equipment into Ukraine over the next few weeks. However, with this latest disbursement, I’ve almost exhausted the drawdown authority I have that Congress authorized for Ukraine in a bipartisan spending bill last month. In order to sustain Ukraine for the duration of this fight, next week I’m going to — have to be sending to Congress a supplemental budget request to keep weapons and ammunition flowing without interruption to the brave Ukrainian fighters and to continue to deliver economic assistance to the Ukrainian people. Hope — and my hope is and my expectation is Congress would move and act quickly. And I want to thank the Congress — Democrats and Republicans — for their support for the people of Ukraine. Our unity at home, our unity with our Allies and partners, and our unity with the Ukrainian people is sending an unmistakable message to Putin: He will never succeed in dominating and occupying all of Ukraine. He will not — that will not happen. In addition to bolstering Ukraine’s resistance on the battlefield, we’re also demonstrating our support for the people of Ukraine. Today, the United States is announcing that we intend to provide an additional $500 million in direct economic assistance to the Ukrainian government. This brings our total economic support for Ukraine to $1 billion in the past two months. This is money the government can help use to help stabilize their economy, to support communities that have been devastated by the Russian onslaught, and pay the brave workers that continue to provide essential services to the people of Ukraine. You know, these past weeks have seen a terrible human cost of Putin’s ambition for conquest and control. Approximately two thirds — two thirds — of all Ukrainian children have been displaced from their homes. More than 5 million Ukrainians have fled their country. It’s an absolute outrage. The idea this is happening approaching the second quarter of the 21st century is just — . Last month, when I was in Europe, I announced that the United States would welcome 100,000 Ukrainians so that we share in the responsibility of supporting Ukrainians fleeing Putin’s war machine. We’ve already welcomed tens of thousands of Ukrainians to the United States. And today, I’m announcing a program, “Unite for Ukraine” — a new program to enable Ukrainians seeking refuge to come directly from Europe to the United States. This new humanitarian parole program will complement the existing legal pathways available to Ukrainians, including immigrant visas and refugee processing. It will provide an expedient channel for secure, legal migration from Europe to the United States for Ukrainians who have a U.S. sponsor, such as a family or an NGO. This program will be fast. It will be streamlined. And it will ensure the United States honors its commitment to go to the Ukrainian people and need not go through our southern border. We’re also continuing to ratchet up the pressure on Putin and further isolate Russia on the world stage. Yesterday, the Treasury Department rolled out additional measures to crack down on the entities and individuals attempting to evade our unprecedented sanctions — not just ours, but throughout the West. Today, I’m announcing that the United States will ban Russian-affiliated ships from our ports, as they did in Europe. That means no ship — no ship that sails under the Russian flag or that is owned or operated by Russian interests will be allowed to dock in a United States port or access our shores. None. None. This is yet another critical step we’re taking in concert with our partners in the European Union, the United Kingdom, and Canada and — further to deny Russia the benefits of the international economic system that they so enjoyed in the past. We don’t know how long this war will last. But as we approach the two-month mark, here’s what we do know: Putin has failed to achieve his grand ambitions on the battlefield. After weeks of shelling Kyiv, Kyiv still stands. President Zelenskyy and his democratically elected government still remain in power. And the Ukrainian armed forces, joined by many brave Ukrainian civilians, have thwarted Russia’s conquest of their country. They have been bolstered from day one by an unstinting supply of weapons, ammunition, armor, intelligence from the nations of the free world led by us, the United States. As Russia continues to grind out the military advances and — their military advances and the brutalities against Ukraine, Putin is banking on us losing interest. That’s been my view; you’ve heard me say this from the beginning. He was counting on NATO, the European Union, our allies in Asia cracking, moving away. He’s betting on Western unity will crack. He’s still betting on that. And, once again, we’re going to prove him wrong. We will not lessen our resolve. We’re going to continue to stand with the brave and proud people of Ukraine. We will never fail in our determination to defend freedom and oppose tyranny. It’s as simple as that. So, again, I want to thank the American people — thank the American people for their support of the Ukrainian people. This is our — this is our responsibility, it seems to me, and we’ve been able to hold the whole world together in this effort. So, thank you very much. Thank you. Well, first of all, it’s questionable whether he does control Mariupol. One thing for sure we know about Mariupol: He should allow humanitarian corridors to let people on that steel mill and other places that are buried under rubble to get out — to get out. That’s what any, any, any head of state would do in such a circumstance. And so, there is no evidence yet that Mariupol has completely fallen. I — well, we have the capacity to do this for a long time. The question is: Are we going to continue to maintain the support of the international community and keep the pressure on Putin to prevent him from overrunning the country? Number one. And, number two, make sure we continue to maintain the economic sanctions, which, over time — and we’re beginning to see it — are devastating their economy and their ability to move forward. So, the most important thing right now is maintain the unity. So far, so good. Thank you very much. The answer — that’s being decided now. And I’m asking the Defense Department to put together what they think we need. Thank you.
Thank you, thank you, thank you. Please, if you have a seat, be seated. If you don’t, come up on stage. Thank you very much. It’s a great honor to be here. Mr. President, they tell me you’re over there somewhere. There you are. Thank you, Mr. President. “Be not afraid.” They were the first words at the first public address of the first Polish Pope after his election on October of 1978. They were words that would come to define Pope John Paul II. Words that would change the world. John Paul brought the message here to Warsaw in his first trip back home as Pope in June of 1979. It was a message about the power — the power of faith, the power of resilience, and the power of the people. In the face of a cruel and brutal system of government, it was a message that helped end the Soviet repression in the Central land and Eastern Europe 30 years ago. It was a message that will overcome the cruelty and brutality of this unjust war. When Pope John Paul brought that message in 1979, the Soviet Union ruled with an iron fist behind an Iron Curtain. Then a year later, the Solidarity movement took hold in Poland. And while I know he couldn’t be here tonight, we’re all grateful in America and around the world for Lech Wałęsa. It reminds me of that phrase of philosopher Kierkegaard: “aith sees best in the dark.” And there were dark moments. Ten years later, the Soviet Union collapsed, and Poland and Central and Eastern Europe would soon be free. Nothing about that battle for freedom was simple or easy. It was a long, painful slog fought over not days and months, but years and decades. But we emerged anew in the great battle for freedom: a battle between democracy and autocracy, between liberty and repression, between a rules-based order and one governed by brute force. In this battle, we need to be clear-eyed. This battle will not be won in days or months either. We need to steel ourselves for the long fight ahead. Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Mayor, members of the Parliament, distinguished guests, and the people of Poland, and I suspect some people of Ukraine that are here: We’re — — we are gathered here at the Royal Castle in this city that holds a sacred place in the history of not only of Europe, but humankind’s unending search for freedom. For generations, Warsaw has stood where liberty has been challenged and liberty has prevailed. In fact, it was here in Warsaw when a young refugee, who fled her home country from Czechoslovakia was under Soviet domination, came back to speak and stand in solidarity with dissidents. Her name was Madeleine Korbel Albright. She became — — one of the most ardent supporters of democracy in the world. She was a friend with whom I served. America’s first woman Secretary of State. She passed away three days ago. She fought her whole life for essential democratic principles. And now, in the perennial struggle for democracy and freedom, Ukraine and its people are on the frontlines fighting to save their nation. And their brave resistance is part of a larger fight for an essential democratic principles that unite all free people: the rule of law; free and fair elections; the freedom to speak, to write, and to assemble; the freedom to worship as one chooses; freedom of the press. These principles are essential in a free society. But they have always — they have always been under siege. They’ve always been embattled. Every generation has had to defeat democracy’s mortal foes. That’s the way of the world — for the world is imperfect, as we know. Where the appetites and ambitions of a few forever seek to dominate the lives and liberties of many. My message to the people of Ukraine is the message I delivered today to Ukraine’s Foreign Minister and Defense Minister, who I believe are here tonight: We stand with you. Period. Today’s fighting in Kyiv and Mariupol and Kharkiv are the latest battle in a long struggle: Hungary, 1956; Poland, 1956 then again 1981; Czechoslovakia, 1968. Soviet tanks crushed democratic uprisings, but the resistance continued until finally, in 1989, the Berlin Wall and all of the walls of Soviet domination — they fell. They fell. And the people prevailed. But the battle for democracy could not conclude and did not conclude with the end of the Cold War. Over the last 30 years, the forces of autocracy have revived all across the globe. Its hallmarks are familiar ones: contempt for the rule of law, contempt for democratic freedom, contempt for the truth itself. Today, Russia has strangled democracy — has sought to do so elsewhere, not only in its homeland. Under false claims of ethnic solidarity, it has invalidated neighboring nations. Putin has the gall to say he’s “de-Nazifying” Ukraine. It’s a lie. It’s just cynical. He knows that. And it’s also obscene. President Zelenskyy was democratically elected. He’s Jewish. His father’s family was wiped out in the Nazi Holocaust. And Putin has the audacity, like all autocrats before him, to believe that might will make right. In my own country, a former president named Abraham Lincoln voiced the opposing spirit to save our Union in the midst of a civil war. He said, “Let us have faith that right makes might.” “Right makes might.” Today, let us now have that faith again. Let us resolve to put the strength of democracies into action to thwart the denigns of our — the designs of autocracy. Let us remember that the test of this moment is the test of all time. The Kremlin wants to portray NATO enlargement as an imperial project aimed at destabilizing Russia. Nothing is further from the truth. NATO is a defensive alliance. It has never sought the demise of Russia. In the lead-up to the current crisis, the United States and NATO worked for months to engage Russia to avert a war. I met with him in person and talked to him many times on the phone. Time and again, we offered real diplomacy and concrete proposals to strengthen European security, enhance transparency, and build confidence on all sides. But Putin and Russia met each of the proposals with disinterest in any negotiation, with lies and ultimatums. Russia was bent on violence from the start. I know not all of you believed me and us when we kept saying, “They are going to cross the border. They are going to attack.” Repeatedly, he asserted, “We have no interest in war.” Guaranteed he would not move. Repeatedly saying he would not invade Ukraine. Repeatedly saying Russian troops along the border were there for “training” — all 180,000 of them. There is simply no justification or provocation for Russia’s choice of war. It’s an example of one of the oldest of human impulses: using brute force and disinformation to satisfy a craving for absolute power and control. It’s nothing less than a direct challenge to the rule-based international order established since the end of World War Two. And it threatens to return to decades of war that ravaged Europe before the international rule-based order was put in place. We cannot go back to that. We cannot. The gravity of the threat is why the response of the West has been so swift and so powerful and so unified, unprecedented, and overwhelming. Swift and punishing costs are the only things that are going to get Russia to change its course. Within days of its invasion, the West had moved jointly with sanctions to damage Russia’s economy. Russia’s Central Bank is now blocked from the global financial systems, denying Kremlin’s access to the war fund it stashed around the globe. We’ve aimed at the heart of Russia’s economy by stopping the imports of Russian energy to the United States. To date, the United States has sanctioned 140 Russian oligarchs and their family members, seizing their ill-begotten gains: their yachts, their luxury apartments, their mansions. We’ve sanctioned more than 400 Russian government officials, including key architects of this war. These officials and oligarchs have reaped enormous benefit from the corruption connected to the Kremlin, and now they have to share in the pain. The private sector is acting as well. Over 400 private multinational companies have pulled out of doing business in Russia — left Russia completely — from oil companies to McDonald’s. As a result of these unprecedented sanctions, the ruble almost is immediately reduced to rubble. The Russian economy — — that’s true, by the way. It takes about 200 rubles to equal one dollar. The economy is on track to be cut in half in the coming years. It was ranked — Russia’s economy was ranked the 11th biggest economy in the world before this evasion — invasion. It will soon not even rank among the top 20 in the world. Taken together, these economic sanctions are a new kind of economic statecraft with the power to inflict damage that rivals military might. These international sanctions are sapping Russian strength, its ability to replenish its military, and its ability — its ability to project power. And it is Putin — it is Vladimir Putin who is to blame, period. At the same time, alongside these economic sanctions, the Western world has come together to provide for the people of Ukraine with incredible levels of military, economic, and humanitarian assistance. In the years before the invasion, we, America, had sent over $650 million, before they crossed the border, in weapons to Ukraine, including anti-air and anti-armor equipment. Since the invasion, America has committed another $1.35 billion in weapons and ammunition. And thanks to the courage and bravery of the Ukrainian people — — the equipment we’ve sent and our colleagues have sent have been used to devastating effect to defend Ukrainian land and airspace. Our Allies and partners have stepped up as well. But as I’ve made clear: American forces are in Europe — not in Europe to engage in conflict with Russian forces. American forces are here to defend NATO Allies. Yesterday, I met with the troops that are serving alongside our Polish allies to bolster NATO’s frontline defenses. The reason we wanted to make clear is their movement on Ukraine: Don’t even think about moving on one single inch of NATO territory. We have a sacred obligation — — we have a sacred obligation under Article 5 to defend each and every inch of NATO territory with the full force of our collective power. And earlier today, I visited your National Stadium, where thousands of Ukrainian refugees are now trying to answer the toughest questions a human can ask: “My God, what’s going to happen to me? What’s going to happen to my family?” I saw tears in many of the mothers’ eyes as I embraced them; their young children — their young children not sure whether to smile or cry. One little girl said, “Mr. President” — she spoke a little English — “is my brother and my daddy — are they going to be okay? Will I see them again?” Without their husbands, their fathers, in many cases, their brothers or sisters who stayed back to fight for their country. I didn’t have to speak the language or understand the language to feel the emotion in their eyes, the way they gripped my hand, and little kids hung on to my leg, praying with a desperate hope that all this is temporary; apprehension that they may be perhaps forever away from their homes, almost with debilitating sadness that this is happening all over again. But I was also struck by the generosity of the people of Warsaw — for that matter, all the Polish people — for the depths of their compassion, their willingness to reach out — — opening their hearts. I was saying to the Mayor they’re preparing to open their hearts and their homes simply to help. I also want to thank my friend, the great American chef, José Andrés, and his team who helped feeling those — — feeding those who are yearning to be free. But helping these refugees is not something Poland or any other nation should carry alone. All the world democracies have a responsibility to help. All of them. And the people of Ukraine can count on the United States to meet its responsibility. I’ve announced, two days ago, we will welcome 100,000 Ukrainian refugees. We already have 8,000 a week coming to the United States of other nat- — nationalities. We’ll provide nearly $300 million of humanitarian assistance, providing tens of thousands of tons of food, water, medicine, and other basic supplies. In Brussels, I announced the United States is prepared to provide more than $1 billion, in addition, in humanitarian aid. The World Food Programme told us that despite significant obstacles, at least some relief is getting to major cities in Ukraine, but not Metropol — no, excuse me, Mar- — not Mariupol, because Russian forces are blocking relief supplies. But we’ll not cease our efforts to get humanitarian relief wherever it is needed in Ukraine and for the people who’ve made it out of Ukraine. Notwithstanding the brutality of Vladimir Putin, let there be no doubt that this war has already been a strategic failure for Russia already. Having lost children myself — I know that’s no solace to the people who’ve lost family. But he, Putin, thought Ukrainians would roll over and not fight. Not much of a student of history. Instead, Russian forces have met their match with brave and stiff Ukrainian resistance. Rather than breaking Ukrainian resolve, Russia’s brutal tactics have strengthened the resolve. Rather than driving NATO apart, the West is now stronger and more united than it has ever been. Russia wanted less of a NATO presence on its border, but now he has a stronger presence, a larger presence, with over a hundred thousand American troops here, along with all the other members of NATO. In fact — — Russia has managed to cause something I’m sure he never intended: The democracies of the world are revitalized with purpose and unity found in months that we’d once taken years to accomplish. It’s not only Russia’s actions in Ukraine that are reminding us of democracy’s blessing. It’s our own country — his own country, the Kremlin, is jailing protestors. Two hundred thousand people have allegedly already left. There’s a brain drain — leaving Russia. Shutting down independent news. State media is all propaganda, blocking the image of civilian targets, mass graves, starvation tactics of the Russian forces in Ukraine. Is it any wonder, as I said, that 200,000 Russians have all left their country in one month? A remarkable brain drain in such a short period of time, which brings me to my message to the Russian people: I’ve worked with Russian leaders for decades. I sat across the negotiating table going all the way back to Soviet Premier Alexei Kosygin to talk arms control at the height of the Cold War. I’ve always spoken directly and honestly to you, the Russian people. Let me say this, if you’re able to listen: You, the Russian people, are not our enemy. I refuse to believe that you welcome the killing of innocent children and grandparents or that you accept hospitals, schools, maternity wards that, for God’s sake, are being pummeled with Russian missiles and bombs; or cities being surrounded so that civilians cannot flee; supplies cut off and attempting to starve Ukrainians into submission. Millions of families are being driven from their homes, including half of all Ukraine’s children. These are not the actions of a great nation. Of all people, you, the Russian people, as well as all people across Europe, still have the memory of being in a similar situation in the late thirties and forties — the situation of World War Two — still fresh in the minds of many grandparents in the region. What — whatever your generation experienced — whether it experienced the Siege of Leningrad or heard about it from your parents and grandparents — train stations overflowing with terrified families fleeing their homes; nights sheltering in basements and cellars; mornings sitting through the rubble in your homes — these are not memories of the past. Not anymore. Because it’s exactly what the Russian army is doing in Ukraine right now. March 26, 2022. Just days before — we’re at the twenty-fir- — you were a 21st century nation with hopes and dreams that people all over the world have for themselves and their family. Now, Vladimir Putin’s aggression have cut you, the Russian people, off from the rest of the world, and it’s taking Russia back to the 19th century. This is not who you are. This is not the future reserve — you deserve for your families and your children. I’m telling you the truth: This war is not worthy of you, the Russian people. Putin can and must end this war. The American people stand with you and the brave citizens of Ukraine who want peace. And my message to the rest of Europe: This new battle for freedom has already made a few things crystal clear. First, Europe must end its dependence on Russian fossil fuels. And we, the United States, will help. That’s why just yesterday, in Brussels, I announced a plan with the President of the European Commission to get Europe through the immediate energy crisis. Over the long term, as a matter of economic security and national security and for the survivability of the planet, we all need to move as quickly as possible to clean, renewable energy. And we’ll work together to help get that done so that the days of any nation being subject to the whims of a tyrant for its energy needs are over. They must end. They must end. And second, we have to fight the corruption coming from the Kremlin to give the Russian people a fair chance. And finally, and most urgently, we maintain absolute unity — we must — among the world’s democracies. It’s not enough to speak with rhetorical flourish, of ennobling words of democracy, of freedom, equality, and liberty. All of us, including here in Poland, must do the hard work of democracy each and every day. My country as well. That’s why — — that’s why I came to Europe again this week with a clear and determined message for NATO, for the G7, for the European Union, for all freedom-loving nations: We must commit now to be in this fight for the long haul. We must remain unified today and tomorrow and the day after and for the years and decades to come. It will not be easy. There will be costs. But it’s a price we have to pay. Because the darkness that drives autocracy is ultimately no match for the flame of liberty that lights the souls of free people everywhere. Time and again, history shows that it’s from the darkest moments that the greatest progress follows. And history shows this is the task of our time, the task of this generation. Let’s remember: The hammer blow that brought down the Berlin Wall, the might that lifted the Iron Curtain were not the words of a single leader; it was the people of Europe who, for decades, fought to free themselves. Their sheer bravery opened the border between Austria and Hungary for the Pan-European Picnic. They joined hands for the Baltic Way. They stood for Solidarity here in Poland. And together, it was an unmistakable and undeniable force of the people that the Soviet Union could not withstand. And we’re seeing it once again today with the brave Ukrainian people, showing that their power of many is greater than the will of any one dictator. So, in this hour, let the words of Pope John Paul burn as brightly today: “Never, ever give up hope, never doubt, never tire, never become discouraged. Be not afraid.” A dictator bent on rebuilding an empire will never erase a people’s love for liberty. Brutality will never grind down their will to be free. Ukraine will never be a victory for Russia — for free people refuse to live in a world of hopelessness and darkness. We will have a different future — a brighter future rooted in democracy and principle, hope and light, of decency and dignity, of freedom and possibilities. For God’s sake, this man cannot remain in power. God bless you all. And may God defend our freedom. And may God protect our troops. Thank you for your patience. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. 6:43 P.M. CET
Good afternoon. I want to begin by thanking President Zelenskyy for his passionate message this morning. I listened to it in the private residence, and he was convincing. And — significant speech. He speaks for a people who have shown remarkable courage and strength in the face of brutal aggression — courage and strength that has inspired not only Ukrainians but the entire world. Putin is inflicting appalling — appalling devastation and horror on Ukraine — bombing apartment buildings, maternity wards, hospitals. I mean, it’s — it’s God awful. I was speaking about this with the — our — our Commander, behind me here — General Milley. I mean, it just is amazing. Yesterday, we saw reports that Russian forces were holding hundreds of doctors and patients hostage in the largest hospital in Mariupol. These are atrocities. They’re an outrage to the world. And the world is united in our support for Ukraine and our determination to make Putin pay a very heavy price. America is leading this effort, together with our Allies and partners, providing enormous levels of security and humanitarian assistance that we’re adding to today and we’re going to continue to do more in the days and weeks ahead. We are crippling Putin’s economy with punishing sanctions that’s going to only grow more painful over time with the entire NATO and EU behind us, and many other countries. What’s at stake here are the principles that the United States and the united nations across the world stand for. It’s about freedom. It’s about the right of people to determine their own future. It’s about making sure Ukraine never — will never be a victory for Putin, no matter what advances he makes on the battlefield. The American people are answering President Zelenskyy’s call for more help, more weapons for Ukraine to defend itself, more tools to fight Russian aggression. And that’s what we’re doing. In fact, we started our assistance to Ukraine before this war began, as they started to do exercises along the Ukrainian border — the Russians — starting in March of last year. We took the threat of Putin invading very seriously, and we acted on it. We sent Ukraine more security assistance last year — $650 million in weapons, including anti-air and anti-armor equipment before the invasion — more than we had ever provided before. So when the invasion began, they already had in their hands the kinds of weapons they needed to counter Russian advances. And once the war started, we immediately rushed $350 million in additional aid to further address their needs: hundreds of anti-air systems, thousands of anti-tank weapons, transport helicopters, armed patrol boats, and other high-mobility vehicles, radar systems that help track incoming artillery and unmanned drones, secure communications equipment and tactical gear, satellite imagery and — and analysis capacity. And it’s clearly helped Ukraine inflict dramatic losses on Russian forces. On Saturday, my administration authorized another $200 million to keep a steady flow of weapons and ammunition moving to Ukraine. Now I’m once again using my presidential authority to activate — to activate additional security assistance to continue to help Ukraine fend off Russia’s assault — an additional $800 million in assistance. That brings the total of new U.S. security assistance to Ukraine to $1 billion just this week. These are the lar- — these are direct transfers of equipment from our Department of Defense to the Ukrainian military to help them as they fight against this invasion. And I thank the Congress for appropriating these funds. This new package on its own is going to provide unprecedented assistance to Ukraine. It includes 800 anti-aircraft systems to make sure the Ukrainian military can continue to — can continue to stop the planes and helicopters that have been attacking their people and to defend their Ukrainian airspace. And at the request of President Zelenskyy, we have identified and are helping Ukraine acquire additional longer-range anti-aircraft systems and the munitions for those systems. Our new assistance package also includes 9,000 anti-armor systems. These are portable, high — high-accurate — high accurately — high-accuracy shoulder-mounted missiles that the Ukrainian forces have been using with great effect to destroy invading tanks and armored vehicles. It’ll include 7,000 small arms — machine guns, shotguns, grenade launchers — to equip the Ukrainians, including the brave women and men who are defending their cities as civilians, and they’re on the countryside as well. And we’re — and we — and as well as the ammunition, artillery, and mortar rounds to go with small arms — 20 million rounds in total. Twenty million rounds. And this will include drones, which — which demonstrates our commitment to sending our most cutting-edge systems to Ukraine for its defense. And we’re not doing this alone. Our Allies and partners have stepped up to provide significant shipments of security assistance and will continue to help facilitate these deliveries as well. The United States and our Allies and partners are fully committed to surging weapons of assistance to the Ukrainians. And more will be coming as we source additional stocks of equipment that are — that we’re ready to transfer. Now — now, I want to be honest with you: This could be a long and difficult battle. But the American people will be steadfast in our support of the people of Ukraine in the face of Putin’s immoral, unethical attacks on civilian populations. We are united in our abhorrence of Putin’s depraved onslaught, and we’re going to continue to have their back as they fight for their freedom, their democracy, their very survival. And we’re going to give Ukraine the arms to fight and defend themselves through all the difficult days ahead. We’re going to continue to mobilize humanitarian relief to support people within Ukraine and those who have been forced to flee Ukraine. In just the past few weeks, we’ve provided $300 million in humanitarian assistance to the people in Ukraine and in neighboring countries. Tens of thousands of tons of food, water, medicine, and other basic supplies to support the people in need. Our experts on the ground in Poland and Moldova and other neighboring countries are there to make real-time assessments of the rapidly evolving crisis and get urgently needed humanitarian supplies to the people in need when they need it. And we will support Ukraine’s economy with direct financial assistance as well. And together with our Allies and partners, we will keep up the pressure on Putin’s crumbling economy, isolating him on the global stage. That’s our goal: make Putin pay the price, weaken his position while strengthening the hand of the Ukrainians on the battlefield and at the negotiating table. Together with our Allies and partners, we’re going to stay the course. And we’ll do everything we can to push for and end this tragic, unnecessary war. This is a struggle that pits the appetites of an autocrat against humankind’s desire to be free. And let there be no doubt, no uncertainty, no question: America stands with the forces of freedom. We always have and we always will. I want to thank you all. And God bless you. And now I’m going to walk over and sign this legisla- — sign this bill to allow the drawdown of those materials. And may God protect the young Ukrainians who are out there defending their country. What I’m signing here is the Delegation of Authority Under Section 506 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961. Translated into plain English: a total of $800 million in defense articles. 
Sorry to keep you waiting. Good afternoon. The Russian military has begun a brutal assault on the people of Ukraine without provocation, without justification, without necessity. This is a premeditated attack. Vladimir Putin has been planning this for months, as I’ve been — as we’ve been saying all along. He moved more than 175,000 troops, military equipment into positions along the Ukrainian border. He moved blood supplies into position and built a field hospital, which tells you all you need to know about his intentions all along. He rejected every good-faith effort the United States and our Allies and partners made to address our mutual security concerns through dialogue to avoid needless conflict and avert human suffering. For weeks — for weeks, we have been warning that this would happen. And now it’s unfolding largely as we predicted. In the past week, we’ve seen shelling increase in the Donbas, the region in eastern Ukraine controlled by Russian-backed separatists. Rus- — the Russian government has perpetrated cyberattacks against Ukraine. We saw a staged political theater in Moscow — outlandish and baseless claims that Ukraine was — Ukraine was about to invade and launch a war against Russia, that Ukraine was prepared to use chemical weapons, that Ukraine committed a genocide — without any evidence. We saw a flagrant violation of international law in attempting to unilaterally create two new so-called republics on sovereign Ukrainian territory. And at the very moment that the United Nations Security Council was meeting to stand up for Ukraine’s sovereignty to stave off invasion, Putin declared his war. Within moments — moments, missile strikes began to fall on historic cities across Ukraine. Then came in the air raids, followed by tanks and troops rolling in. We’ve been transparent with the world. We’ve shared declassified evidence about Russia’s plans and cyberattacks and false pretexts so that there can be no confusion or cover-up about what Putin was doing. Putin is the aggressor. Putin chose this war. And now he and his country will bear the consequences. Today, I’m authorizing additional strong sanctions and new limitations on what can be exported to Russia. This is going to impose severe costs on the Russian economy, both immediately and over time. We have purposefully designed these sanctions to maximize the long-term impact on Russia and to minimize the impact on the United States and our Allies. And I want to be clear: The United States is not doing this alone. For months, we’ve been building a coalition of partners representing well more than half of the global economy. Twenty-seven members of the European Union, including France, Germany, Italy — as well as the United Kingdom, Canada, Japan, Australia, New Zealand, and many others — to amplify the joint impact of our response. I just spoke with the G7 leaders this morning, and we are in full and total agreement. We will limit Russia’s ability to do business in Dollars, Euros, Pounds, and Yen to be part of the global economy. We will limit their ability to do that. We are going to stunt the ability to finance and grow Rus- — the Russian military. We’re going to impose major — and we’re going to impair their ability to compete in a high-tech 21st century economy. We’ve already seen the impact of our actions on Russia’s currency, the Ruble, which early today hit its weakest level ever — ever in history. And the Russian stock market plunged today. The Russian government’s borrowing rate spiked by over 15 percent. In today’s actions, we have now sanctioned Russian banks that together hold around $1 trillion in assets. We’ve cut off Russia’s largest bank — a bank that holds more than one third of Russia’s banking assets by itself — cut it off from the U.S. financial system. And today, we’re also blocking four more major banks. That means every asset they have in America will be frozen. This includes V.T.B., the second-largest bank in Russia, which has $250 billion in assets. As promised, we’re also adding names to the list of Russian elites and their family members that are sanctioning — that we’re sanctioning as well. As I said on Tuesday, these are people who personally gain from the Kremlin’s policies and they should share in the pain. We will keep up this drumbeat of those designations against corrupt billionaires in the days ahead. On Tuesday, we stopped the Russian government from raising money from U.S. or European investors. Now, we’re going to apply the same restrictions to Russia’s largest state-owned enterprises — companies with assets that exceed $1.4 trillion. Some of the most powerful impacts of our actions will come over time as we squeeze Russia’s access to finance and technology for strategic sectors of its economy and degrade its industrial capacity for years to come. Between our actions and those of our Allies and partners, we estimate that we’ll cut off more than half of Russia’s high-tech imports. It will strike a blow to their ability to continue to modernize their military. It’ll degrade their aerospace industry, including their space program. It will hurt their ability to build ships, reducing their ability to compete economically. And it will be a major hit to Putin’s long-term strategic ambitions. And we’re preparing to do more. In addition to the economic penalties we’re imposing, we’re also taking steps to defend our NATO Allies, particularly in the east. Tomorrow, NATO will convene a summit — we’ll be there — to bring together the leaders of 30 Allied nations and close partners to affirm our solidarity and to map out the next steps we will take to further strengthen all aspects of our NATO Alliance. Although we provided over $650 million in defensive assistance to Ukraine just this year — this last year, let me say it again: Our forces are not and will not be engaged in the conflict with Russia in Ukraine. Our forces are not going to Europe to fight in Ukraine but to defend our NATO Allies and reassure those Allies in the east. As I made crystal clear, the United States will defend every inch of NATO territory with the full force of American power. And the good news is: NATO is more united and more determined than ever. There is no doubt — no doubt that the United States and every NATO Ally will meet our Article 5 commitments, which says that an attack on one is an attack on all. Over the past few weeks, I ordered thousands of additional forces to Germany and Poland as part of our commitment to NATO. On Tuesday, in response to Russia’s aggressive action, including its troop presence in Belarus and the Black Sea, I’ve authorized the deployment of ground and air forces already stationed in Europe to NATO’s eastern flank Allies: Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, and Romania. Our Allies have also been stepping up, adding — the other Allies, the rest of NATO — adding their own forces and capabilities to ensure our collective defense. And today, within hours of Russia’s unleashing its assault, NATO came together and authorized and activated — an activation of response plans. This will enable NATO’s high-readiness forces to deploy and — when and where they’re needed to protect our NATO Allies on the eastern boundaries of Europe. And now I’m authorizing additional U.S. forces and capabilities to deploy to Germany as part of NATO’s response, including some of U.S.-based forces that the Department of Defense placed on standby weeks ago. I’ve also spoken with Defense Secretary Austin and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs, General Milley, about preparations for additional moves should they become necessary to protect our NATO Allies and support the greatest military Alliance in the history of the world — NATO. As we respond, my administration is using the tools — every tool at our disposal to protect American families and businesses from rising prices at the gas pump. You know, we’re taking active steps to bring down the costs. And American oil and gas companies should not — should not exploit this moment to hike their prices to raise profits. You know, in our sanctions package, we specifically designed to allow energy payments to continue. We are closely monitoring energy supplies for any disruption. We have been coordinating with major oil producing and consuming countries toward our common interest to secure global energy supplies. We are actively working with countries around the world to elevate a collective release from the Strategic Petroleum Reserves of major energy-consuming countries. And the United States will release additional barrels of oil as conditions warrant. I know this is hard and that Americans are already hurting. I will do everything in my power to limit the pain the American people are feeling at the gas pump. This is critical to me. But this aggression cannot go unanswered. If it did, the consequences for America would be much worse. America stands up to bullies. We stand up for freedom. This is who we are. Let me also repeat the warning I made last week: If Russia pursues cyberattacks against our companies, our critical infrastructure, we are prepared to respond. For months, we have been working closely with our private — with the private sector to harden their cyber defenses, sharpen our ability to respond to Russian cyberattacks as well. I spoke late last night to President Zelenskyy of Ukraine and I assured him that the United States, together with our Allies and partners in Europe, will support the Ukrainian people as they defend their country. We’ll provide humanitarian relief to ease their suffering. And in the early days of this conflict, Russian propaganda outlets will keep trying to hide the truth and claim success for its military operation against a made-up threat. But history has shown time and again how swift gains in territory eventually give way to grinding occupations, acts of mass civil — mass civil disobedience, and strategic dead-ends. The next few weeks and months will be hard on the people of Ukraine. Putin has unleashed a great pain on them. But the Ukrainian people have known 30 years of independence, and they have repeatedly shown that they will not tolerate anyone who tries to take their country backwards. This is a dangerous moment for all of Europe, for the freedom around the world. Putin has a — has committed an assault on the very principles that uphold global peace. But now the entire world sees clearly what Putin and his Kremlin — and his Kremlin allies are really all about. This was never about genuine security concerns on their part. It was always about naked aggression, about Putin’s desire for empire by any means necessary — by bullying Russia’s neighbors through coercion and corruption, by changing borders by force, and, ultimately, by choosing a war without a cause. Putin’s actions betray his sinister vision for the future of our world — one where nations take what they want by force. But it is a vision that the United States and freedom-loving nations everywhere will oppose with every tool of our considerable power. The United States and our Allies and partners will emerge from this stronger, more united, more determined, and more purposeful. And Putin’s aggression against Ukraine will end up costing Russia dearly — economically and strategically. We will make sure of that. Putin will be a pariah on the international stage. Any nation that countenances Russia’s naked aggression against Ukraine will be stained by association. When the history of this era is written, Putin’s choice to make a totally unjustifiable war on Ukraine will have left Russia weaker and the rest of the world stronger. Liberty, democracy, human dignity — these are the forces far more powerful than fear and oppression. They cannot be extinguished by tyrants like Putin and his armies. They cannot be erased by people — from people’s hearts and hopes by any amount of violence and intimidation. They endure. And in the contest between democracy and autocracy, between sovereignty and subjugation, make no mistake: Freedom will prevail. God bless the people of a free and democratic Ukraine. And may God protect our troops. Well, it’s a large conflict already. The way we’re going to assure it’s not going to spiral to a larger conflict is by providing all the forces needed in the Eastern European nations that are members of NATO. NATO is more united than it’s ever been. And I have no plans to talk with Putin. Wall Street Journal, Tarina . The sanctions that we have proposed on all their banks is of equal consequence — maybe more consequence than SWIFT — number one. Number two, it is always an option. But right now, that’s not the position that the rest of Europe wishes to take. Cecilia Ve- — Vega, ABC. I have no idea what he’s threatening. I know what he has done, number one. And number two, no one expected the sanctions to prevent anything from happening. That has to sh- — this is going to take time. And we have to show resolve so he knows what’s coming and so the people of Russia know what he’s brought on them. That’s what this is all about. This is going to take time. It’s not going to occur — he’s going to say, “Oh my God, these sanctions are coming. I’m going to stand down.” He’s going to test the resolve of the West to see if we stay together. And we will. We will and it will impose significant costs on him. At the time, he was — I made it clear he was an adversary, and I said he was “worthy.” I didn’t underestimate him. And I’ve read most of everything he’s written. Did you read the — I shouldn’t sa- — I’m not being a wise guy. The — you heard the speech he made — almost an hour’s worth of speeches — why he was going into Ukraine. He has much larger ambitions in Ukraine. He wants to, in fact, reestablish the former Soviet Union. That’s what this is about. And I think that his — his ambitions are — are completely contrary to the place where the rest of the world has arrived. Yes. Russian bullets, missiles, and tanks in Ukraine. Yes, I am.
Trying to make up your mind, huh? Well, good afternoon. Yesterday, Vladimir Putin recognized two regions of Ukraine as independent states and he bizarrely asserted that these regions are no longer part of Ukraine and their sovereign territory. To put it simply, Russia just announced that it is carving out a big chunk of Ukraine. Last night, Putin authorized Russian forces to deploy into the region — these regions. Today, he asserted that these regions are — actually extend deeper than the two areas he recognized, claiming large areas currently under the jurisdiction of the Ukraine government. He’s setting up a rationale to take more territory by force, in my view. And if we listen to his speech last night — and many of you did, I know — he’s — he’s setting up a rationale to go much further. This is the beginning of a Russian invasion of Ukraine, as he indicated and asked permission to be able to do from his Duma. So, let’s begin to — so, I’m going to begin to impose sanctions in response, far beyond the steps we and our Allies and partners implemented in 2014. And if Russia goes further with this invasion, we stand prepared to go further as — with sanction. Who in the Lord’s name does Putin think gives him the right to declare new so-called countries on territory that belonged to his neighbors? This is a flagrant violation of international law, and it demands a firm response from the international community. Over the last few months, we have coordinated closely with our NATO Allies and partners in Europe and around the world to prepare that response. We’ve said all along and I’ve told Putin to his face a mon- — a month a- — more than a month ago that we would act together and the moment Russia moved against Ukraine. Russia has now undeniably moved against Ukraine by declaring these independent states. So, today, I’m announcing the first tranche of sanctions to impose costs on Russia in response to their actions yesterday. These have been closely coordinated with our Allies and partners, and we’ll continue to escalate sanctions if Russia escalates. We’re implementing full blocking sanctions on two large Russian financial institutions: V.E.B. and their military bank. We’re implementing comprehensive sanctions on Russian sovereign debt. That means we’ve cut off Russia’s government from Western financing. It can no longer raise money from the West and cannot trade in its new debt on our markets or European markets either. Starting tomorrow and continuing in the days ahead, we will also impose sanctions on Russia’s elites and their family members. They share in the corrupt gains of the Kremlin policies and should share in the pain as well. And because of Russia’s actions, we’ve worked with Germany to ensure Nord Stream 2 will not — as I promised — will not move forward. As Russia contemplates its next move, we have our next move prepared as well. Russia will pay an even steeper price if it continues its aggression, including additional sanctions. The United States will continue to provide defensive assistance to Ukraine in the meantime. And we’ll continue to reinforce and reassure our NATO Allies. Today, in response to Russia’s admission that it will not withdraw its forces from Belarus, I have authorized additional movements of U.S. forces and equipment already stationed in Europe to strengthen our Baltic Allies — Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania. Let me be clear: These are totally defensive moves on our part. We have no intention of fighting Russia. We want to send an unmistakable message, though, that the United States, together with our Allies, will defend every inch of NATO territory and abide by the commitments we made to NATO. We still believe that Russia is poised to go much further in launching a massive military attack against Ukraine. I hope I’m wrong about that — hope we’re wrong about that. But Russia has only escalated its threat against the rest of Ukrainian territory, including major cities and including the capital city of Kyiv. There are — there are still well over 150,000 Russian troops surrounding Ukraine. And as I said, Russian forces remain positioned in Belarus to attack Ukraine from the north, including war planes and offensive missile systems. Russia has moved troops closer to Ukraine’s border with Russia. Russia’s naval vessels are maneuvering in the Black Sea to Ukraine’s south, including amphibious assault ships, missile cruisers, and submarines. Russia has moved supplies of blood and medical equipment into position on their border. You don’t need blood unless you plan on starting a war. And over the last few days, we’ve seen much of the playbook that Secretary Blinken laid out last week at the United Nations Security Council come to pass: a major increase in military provocations and false-flag events along the line of contact in the Donbas; dramatically staged, conveniently on-camera meeting of Putin’s Security Council to grandstand for the Russian public; and now political provocation of recognizing sovereign Ukrainian territory as so-called independent republics in clear violation, again, of international law. President Putin has sought authorization from the Russian parliament to use military force outside of Russian territory. And this set the stage for further pretexts and further provocations by Russia to try to justify further military action. None of us — none of us should be fooled. None of us will be fooled. There is no justification. Further Russian assault into Ukraine remains a severe threat in the days ahead. And if Russia proceeds, it is Russia, and Russia alone, that bears the responsibility. As we respond, my administration is using every tool at our disposal to protect American businesses and consumers from rising prices at the pump. As I said last week, defending freedom will have costs for us as well, here at home. We need to be honest about that. But as we will do — but as we do this, I’m going to take robust action and make sure the pain of our sanctions is targeted at the Russian economy, not ours. We are closely monitoring energy supplies for any disruption. We’re executing a plan in coordination with major oil-producing consumers and producers toward a collective investment to secure stability and global energy supplies. This will be — this will blunt gas prices. I want to limit the pain the American people are feeling at the gas pump. This is critical to me. In the last few days, I have been in constant contact with European leaders, including with Ukrainian President Zelenskyy. Vice President Harris met in person with leaders in Germany over the weekend at the Munich Conference, including President Zelenskyy. At every step, we have shown that the United States and our Allies and partners are working in unison — which he hasn’t been counting on — Mr. Putin. We’re united in our support of Ukraine. We’re united in our opposition to Russian aggression. And we’re united in our resolve to defend our NATO Alliance. And we’re united in our understanding of the urgency and seriousness of the threat Russia is making to global peace and stability. Yesterday, the world heard clearly the full extent of Vladimir Putin’s twisted rewrite of history, going back more than a century, as he waxed eloquently, noting that — well, I’m not going to go into it, but nothing in Putin’s lengthy remarks indicated any interest in pursuing real dialogue on European security in the year 2022. He directly attacked Ukraine’s right to exist. He indirectly threatened territory formerly held by Russia, including nations that today are thriving democracies and members of NATO. He explicitly threatened war unless his extreme demands were met. And there is no question that Russia is the aggressor. So we’re clear-eyed about the challenges we’re facing. Nonetheless, there is still time to avert the worst-case scenario that will bring untold suffering to millions of people if they move as suggested. The United States and our Allies and partners remain open to diplomacy if it is serious. When all is said and done, we’re going to judge Russia by its actions, not its words. And whatever Russia does next, we’re ready to respond with unity, clarity, and conviction. We’ll probably have more to say about this as we — if it moves on. I’m hoping diplomacy is still available. Thank you all very much. 2:32 P.M. EST
Good afternoon. Today, I made two vital calls, as I’ve been making for some months now — two vital calls that — on the situation in Russia and Ukraine. The first was to a bipartisan group of members of Congress who are currently representing the United States, along with Vice President Harris at the Munich Security Conference. The second was the latest in a series of calls over the past many months with the heads of state of our NATO Allies and the European Union to bring them up to date on what the United States thinks is the current state of affairs, and what’s likely to happen in Ukraine in the coming days, to ensure that we continue to remain in lockstep — that is the European Union and NATO. Despite Russia’s efforts to divide us at home and abroad, I can affirm that has not happened. The overwhelming message of both — on both calls was one of unity, determination, and resolve. I shared with all of those on the calls what we know about a rapidly escalating crisis in Ukraine. Over the last few days, we’ve seen reports of a major uptick in violations of the ceasefire by Russian-backed fighters attempting to provoke Ukraine in the Donbas. For example, a shelling of a Ukrainian kindergarten yesterday, which Russia has falsely asserted was carried out by Ukraine. We also continue to see more and more disinformation being pushed out by — to the Russian public, including the Russian-backed separatists, claiming that Ukraine is planning to launch a massive offensive attack in the Donbas. Well, look, there is simply no evidence of these assertions, and it and devies — it defies basic logic to believe the Ukrainians would choose this moment, with well over 150,000 troops arrayed on its borders, to escalate a year-long conflict. Russia state media also continues to make phony allegations of a genocide taking place in the Donbas and push fabricated claims warning about Ukraine’s attack on Russia without any evidence. That’s just what I’m sure Ukraine is thinking of doing — attacking Russia. All these are consistent with the playbook the Russians have used before: to set up a false justification to act against Ukraine. This is also in line with the pretext scenarios that the United States and our Allies and partners have been warning about for weeks. Throughout these tense moments, the Ukrainian forces have shown great judgment and, I might add, restraint. They’ve refused to allow the Russians to bait them into war. But the fact remains: Russian troops currently have Ukraine surrounded — from Belarus, along the Russian border with Ukraine, to the Black Sea in the south — and all of its border. You know, look, we have reason to believe the Russian forces are planning to and intend to attack Ukraine in the coming week — in the coming days. We believe that they will target Ukraine’s capital, Kyiv, a city of 2.8 million innocent people. We’re calling out Russia’s plans loudly and repeatedly, not because we want a conflict, but because we’re doing everything in our power to remove any reason that Russia may give to justify invading Ukraine and prevent them from moving. Make no mistake: If Russia pursues its plans, it will be responsible for a catastrophic and needless war of choice. The United States and our Allies are prepared to defend every inch of NATO territory from any threat to our collective security as well. We also will not send troops in to fight in Ukraine, but we will continue to support the Ukrainian people. This past year, the United States provided a record amount of security assistance to Ukraine to bolster its defensive — $650 million, from Javelin missiles to ammunition. And we also previously provided $500 million in Ukrai- — in humanitarian aid and economic support for Ukraine. And earlier this week, we also announced an additional sovereign loan guarantee of up to $1 billion to strengthen Ukraine’s economic resilience. But the bottom line is this: The United States and our Allies and partners will support the Ukrainian people. We will hold Russia accountable for its actions. The West is united and resolved. We’re ready to impose severe sanctions on Russia if it further invades Ukraine. But I say again: Russia can still choose diplomacy. It is not too late to de-escalate and return to the negotiating table. Last night, Russia agreed that Secretary of State Blinken and Foreign Minister Lavrov should meet on Feb- — on February 24th — February 24th in Europe. But if Russia takes military action before that date, it will be clear that they have slammed the door shut on diplomacy. They will have — they will have chosen war, and they will pay a steep price for doing so — not only from the sanctions that we and our allies will impose on Russia, but the moral outrage that the rest of the world will visit upon them. You know, there are many issues that divide our nation and our world, but standing up to Russian aggression is not one of them. The American people are united. Europe is united. The transatlantic community is united. Our political parties in this country are united. The entire free world is united. Russia has a choice between war and all the suffering it will bring or diplomacy that will make a future safer for everyone. Now I’m happy to take a few questions. Nancy from Bloomberg. That’s a judgment for him to make and a determination as to whether or not. I’ve spoken with Zelenskyy a dozen times — maybe more, I don’t know. And — and it’s — and in the pursuit of a diplomatic solution, it may not be fal- — it may be the wise choice. But it’s his decision. As of this moment, I’m convinced he’s made the decision. We have reason to believe that. Yes. There will be some slight differences, but none — there will be more add-ons than subtractions.
Good afternoon. Today, I’d like to provide an update on the crisis involving Russia and Ukraine. From the beginning of this crisis, I have been absolutely clear and consistent: The United States is prepared no matter what happens. We are ready with diplomacy — to be engaged in diplomacy with Russia and our Allies and partners to improve stability and security in Europe as a whole. And we are ready to respond decisively to a Russian attack on Ukraine, which is still very much a possibility. Through all of the events of the last few weeks and months, this has been our approach. And it remains our approach now. So, today I want to speak to the American people about the situation on the ground, the steps we’ve taken, the actions we’re prepared to take, and what’s at stake for us and the world, and how this may impact on us here at home. For weeks now, together with our Allies and partners, my administration has engaged in non-stop diplomacy. This weekend I spoke again with President Putin to make clear that we are ready to keep pursuing high-level diplomacy to reach written understandings among Russia, the United States, and the nations of Europe to address legitimate security concerns if that’s what — his wish. Their security concerns and ours. President Putin and I agreed that our teams should continue to engage toward this end along with our European Allies and partners. Yesterday, the Russian government publicly proposed to continue the diplomacy. I agree. We should give the diplomacy every chance to succeed. I believe there are real ways to address our respective security concerns. The United States has put on the table concrete ideas to establish a security environment in Europe. We’re proposing new arms control measures, new transparency measures, new strategic stability measures. These measures would apply to all parties — NATO and Russia alike. And we’re willing to make practical, results-oriented steps that can advance our common security. We will not sacrifice basic principles, though. Nations have a right to sovereignty and territorial integrity. They have the freedom to set their own course and choose with whom they will associate. But that still leaves plenty of room for diplomacy and for de-escalation. That’s the best way forward for all parties, in our view. And we’ll continue our diplomatic efforts in close consultation with our Allies and our partners. As long as there is hope of a diplomatic resolution that prevents the use of force and avoids the incredible human suffering that would follow, we will pursue it. The Russian Defense Ministry reported today that some military units are leaving their positions near Ukraine. That would be good, but we have not yet verified that. We have not yet verified that Russian military units are returning to their home bases. Indeed, our analysts indicate that they remain very much in a threatening position. And the fact remains: Right now, Russia has more than 150,000 troops encircling Ukraine in Belarus and along Ukraine’s border. An invasion remains distinctly possible. That’s why I’ve asked several times that all Americans in Ukraine leave now before it’s too late to leave safely. It is why we have temporarily relocated our embassy from Kyiv to Lviv in western Ukraine, approaching the Polish border. And we’ve been transparent with the American people and with the world about Russia’s plans and the seriousness of the situation so that everyone can see for themselves what is happening. We have shared what we know and what we are doing about it. Let me be equally clear about what we are not doing: The United States and NATO are not a threat to Russia. Ukraine is not threatening Russia. Neither the U.S. nor NATO have missiles in Ukraine. We do not — do not have plans to put them there as well. We’re not targeting the people of Russia. We do not seek to destabilize Russia. To the citizens of Russia: You are not our enemy. And I do not believe you want a bloody, destructive war against Ukraine — a country and a people with whom you share such deep ties of family, history, and culture. Seventy-seven years ago, our people fought and sacrificed side by side to end the worst war in history. World War Two was a war of necessity. But if Russia attacks Ukraine, it would be a war of choice, or a war without cause or reason. I say these things not to provoke but to speak the truth — because the truth matters; accountability matters. If Russia does invade in the days or weeks ahead, the human cost for Ukraine will be immense, and the strategic cost for Russia will also be immense. If Russia attacks Ukraine, it’ll be met with overwhelming international condemnation. The world will not forget that Russia chose needless death and destruction. Invading Ukraine will prove to be a self-inflicted wound. The United States and our Allies and partners will respond decisively. The West is united and galvanized. Today, our NATO Allies and the Alliance is as unified and determined as it has ever been. And the source of our unbreakable strength continues to be the power, resilience, and universal appeal of our shared democratic values. Because this is about more than just Russia and Ukraine. It’s about standing for what we believe in, for the future we want for our world, for liberty — for liberty, the right of countless countries to choose their own destiny, and the right of people to determine their own futures, for the principle that a country can’t change its neighbor’s borders by force. That’s our vision. And toward that end, I’m confident that vision, that freedom will prevail. If Russia proceeds, we will rally the world to oppose its aggression. The United States and our Allies and partners around the world are ready to impose powerful sanctions on export controls, including actions that did not — we did not pursue when Russia invaded Crimea and eastern Ukraine in 2014. We will put intense pressure on their largest and most significant financial institutions and key industries. These measures are ready to go as soon and if Russia moves. We’ll impose long-term consequences that will undermine Russia’s ability to compete economically and strategically. And when it comes to Nord Stream 2, the pipeline that would bring natural gas from Russia to Germany, if Russia further invades Ukraine, it will not happen. While I will not send American servicemen to fight Russia in Ukraine, we have supplied the Ukrainian military with equipment to help them defend themselves. We have provided training and advice and intelligence for the same purpose. And make no mistake: The United States will defend every inch of NATO territory with the full force of American power. An attack against one NATO country is an attack against all of us. And the United States commitment to Article 5 is sacrosanct. Already, in response to Russia’s build-up of troops, I have sent additional U.S. forces to bolster NATO’s eastern flank. Several of our Allies have also announced they’ll add forces and capabilities to ensure deterrence and defense along NATO’s eastern flank. We will also continue to conduct military exercises with our Allies and partners to enhance defensive readiness. And if Russia invades, we will take further steps to reinforce our presence in NATO, reassure for our Allies, and deter further aggression. This is a cause that unites Republicans and Democrats. And I want to thank the leaders and members of Congress of both parties who have forcefully spoken out in defense of our most basic, most bipartisan, most American principles. I will not pretend this will be painless. There could be impact on our energy prices, so we are taking active steps to alleviate the pressure on our own energy markets and offset rising prices. We’re coordinating with major enersy — energy consumers and producers. We’re prepared to deploy all the tools and authority at our disposal to provide relief at the gas pump. And I will work with Congress on additional measures to help protect consumers and address the impact of prices at the pump. We are not seeking direct confrontation with Russia, though I have been clear that if Russia targets Americans in Ukraine, we will respond forcefully. And if Russia attacks the United States or our Allies through asymmetric means, like disruptive cyberattacks against our companies or critical infrastructure, we are prepared to respond. We’re moving in lockstep with our NATO Allies and partners to deepen our collective defense against threats in cyberspace. Two paths are still open. For the sake of the historic responsibility Russia and the United States share for global stability, for the sake of our common future — to choose diplomacy. But let there be no doubt: If Russia commits this breach by invading Ukraine, responsible nations around the world will not hesitate to respond. If we do not stand for freedom where it is at risk today, we’ll surely pay a steeper price tomorrow. Thank you. I’ll keep you informed. END 3:50 P.M. EST
Thank you, everyone for participating in the Summit for Democracy and for renewing our dedication to the shared values that are the root of our national and international strength. In the lead-up to this gathering, over the last two days, we’ve heard government leaders, as well as democratic reformers from every region of the world, talk about the challenges that democracy is facing and the opportunities for its renewal. We’ve facilitated conversations and connections among mayors around the globe — from Mesa, Arizona, to Mannheim, Germany — and other leaders who are on the frontlines of demonstrating the power of democracy through local governments — governance. We’ve shone a spotlight on the importance of protecting media freedom and how advancing the status of women and girls is an investment in the success for our democracies. And we’ve focused on the need to empower human rights defenders and make sure technological and — technology enables so much of our lives that is used to advance democracies to lift people up, not to hold them down. We’ve heard the concerns of young people who have had a greater stake in the future than anyone else — and they’ve made that clear — about what matters to them most and how important it is to make sure their voices are included in our democracies. And though each of our nations faces unique challenges and many of the specific circumstances are different, the threat we face and the solutions we seek have a common antecedent. This is not a struggle of any one facing it alone; it’s all of us. And the commitments we’ve made to ourselves, to our own people, to one another will not only strengthen our own democracies by pushing back against autocracies fighting corruption and promoting human rights for all people — this is going to help seed the fertile ground for democracy to bloom around the world. And I’m so encouraged by the energy and the enthusiasm we’ve seen to rally people around the world in support of our shared democratic values. As just one example: In advance of the Summit, the presidents of Panama, Costa Rica, and the Dominican Republic formed, quote, an “alliance to strengthen democratic institutions,” end of quote, to cooperate — to cooperate on transparency, human rights, economic development, and strengthening democracy throughout the region. This is the sort of inspiring commitment and partnerships that I hope we’ll see more of as we undertake this issue in the next year of action. And I hope that each of our countries are going to measure the results of our efforts so that we can report back on our progress at a second Summit for Democracy next year, when I hope to welcome each of you in person. For the — for our part, as I said yesterday, the United States is committed to strengthening our democracy at home and to working with parties around the world — around the globe to prove that democracies can deliver for people on issues that matter most to them. Here at home, that means working to make real the full promise of America, including by enacting both the Freedom to Vote Act and the John Lewis Voting Rights Advancement Act. Because what’s true around the world is also true in the United States: The sacred right to vote, to vote freely — the right to have your vote counted is the threshold of liberty for democracy — for every democracy. With it, anything is possible. Without it, virtually nothing is possible. So, we have to come together and get it done, and we will. The United States is also going to continue our efforts to beat the pandemic, working with the World Health Organization, COVAX, and other partners to save lives, vaccinate the world against COVID-19, and advance health security for everyone. We’re leveraging our democratic partnerships, like the G7 and the Quad, to amplify our shared capacity to produce and to deliver vaccines and to help get shots in arms for everyone everywhere. We’re taking on climate crisis — the climate crisis with a seriousness and urgency, responding to the moral — with moral clarity we’re seeing coming from young people around the world. And we’re affirming the democratic values that are at the heart of our international system and which have been the foundational elements of — for decades — of global growth and prosperity. And we’re committed — we’re committed to working with all who share those values to shape the rules of the road that are going to govern our progress in the 21st century, including on issues of cybersecurity and emerging technologies so that future generations continue to reap the benefits of liberty and democracy, as we have. And the final message I want to impart as we close out this Summit for Democracy is that we know how hard the work is that’s going to be ahead of us, but we also know we are up to the challenge. Because as I have said before, and as this gathering has demonstrated, the democratic world is everywhere. Autocracies can never extinguish the ember of liberty that burns in the hearts of people around the world, in every portion of the world. It knows no borders. It speaks every language. It lives in anti-corruption activists, human rights defenders, journalists, peaceful protestors on the frontlines of this struggle all around the world. And it lives in town council meetings, union elections, daily small acts that occur around the globe whenever people come together to solve problems and to bridge differences, and in all the ways civil society empowers individuals to have a direct say in the issues that impact on their — their lives — impact on them personally. And so, defending democracy demands a whole-of-society effort. It requires all of us. As the leaders of governments, we — we have a responsibility to listen to our citizens, to strengthen the guardrails of democracy, and to drive reforms that are going to make transparent, accountable governments — governance more resilient against the buffering and — the buffeting forces of autocracy and those who want — and the naked pursuit of power ahead of the public good. You know, we have to work together with the private sector to combat corruption, to build more equitable economies where more people can share in the benefits. We have to empower our citizens to hold accountable — to hold all of us accountable to the highest ideals and to make sure our actions align with our words. And as we close out the first gathering, let’s — let us together reaffirm our determination that the future will belong to those who embrace human dignity, not those who trample it; who unleash the potential of their people, not those who stifle it; and who give their people the ability to breathe free, not those who seek to suffocate their people with an iron hand. You know, as the great Irish poet Seamus Heaney once wrote: “…once in a lifetime, The longed-for tidal wave Of justice can rise up, And hope and history rhyme.” That tidal wave doesn’t come out of nowhere. It doesn’t happen by accident. It happens because people unleash the irresistible power of their dreams and their determination. Democracy is what makes it possible for hope and history to rhyme. And today, hope and history lie in our hands. So let’s raise up our ambitions and rise up to meet the challenges together. Thank you, and I look forward to following through in the next year on all of the commitments that we’re making individually. Thank you.
Well, hello everyone, and welcome to the first Summit for Democracy. This gathering has been on my mind for a long time for a simple reason: In the face of sustained and alarming challenges to democracy, universal human rights, and — all around the world, democracy needs champions. And I wanted to host this summit because here is the — here in the United States, we know as well as anyone that renewing our democracy and strengthening our democratic institutions requires constant effort. American democracy is an ongoing struggle to live up to our highest ideals and to heal our divisions; to recommit ourselves to the founding idea of our nation captured in our Declaration of Independence, not unlike many of your documents. We say: “We hold these truths to be self-evident” that all women and men are created equal, endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights, among them life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. Democracy doesn’t happen by accident. We have to renew it with each generation. And this is an urgent matter on all our parts, in my view. Because the data we’re seeing is largely pointing in the wrong direction. Freedom House reports, in 2020, that it marked the 15th consecutive year of global freedom in retreat. Another recent report, from the International Institute of Democracy and Electoral Assistance, noted that more than half of all democracies have experienced a decline in at least one aspect of their democracy over the last 10 years, including the United States. And these trends are being exacerbated by global challenges that are more complex than ever and which require shared efforts to address these concerns: By outside pressure from autocrats. They seek to advance their own power, export and expand their influence around the world, and justify their repressive policies and practices as a more efficient way to address today’s challenges. That’s how it’s sold. By voices that seek to fan the flames of societal division and political polarization. And perhaps most importantly and worrying of all — most worrying of all, by increasing the dissatisfaction of people all around the world with democratic governments that they feel are failing to deliver for their needs. In my view, this is the defining challenge of our time. Democracy — government of the people, by the people, for the people — can at times be fragile, but it also is inherently resilient. It’s capable of self-correction and it’s capable of self-improvement. And, yes, democracy is hard. We all know that. It works best with consensus and cooperation. When people and parties that might have opposing views sit down and find ways to work together, things begin to work. But it’s the best way to unleash human potential and defend human dignity and solve big problems. And it’s up to us to prove that. Democracies are not all the same. We don’t agree on everything, all of us in this meeting today. But the choices we make together are going to define, in my view, the course of our shared future for generations to come. And as a global community for democracy, we have to stand up for the values that unite us. We have to stand for justice and the rule of law, for free speech, free assembly, a free press, freedom of religion, and for all the inherent human rights of every individual. My late friend Congressman John Lewis was a great champion of American democracy and for civil rights around the world, learning from and gaining inspiration from other great leaders like Gandhi and Mandela. With his final words, as he was dying, to our nation last year, he reminded our country, quote, “Democracy is not a state, it is an act.” “Democracy is not a state, it is an act.” So, over the next two days, we’re bringing together leaders from more than 100 governments alongside activists, trade unionists, and other members of civil society, leading experts and researchers, and representatives from the business community, not — not to assert that any one of our democracies is perfect or has all the answers, but to lock arms and reaffirm our shared commitment to make our democracies better; to share ideas and learn from each other; and to make concrete commitments of how — how to strengthen our own democracies and push back on authoritarianism, fight corruption, promote and protect human rights of people everywhere. To act. To act. This summit is a kick-off of a year in action for all of our countries to follow through on our commitments and to report back next year on the progress we’ve made. And as we do this, the United States is going to lead by example, investing in our own democratic — in our democracy, supporting our partners around the world at the same time. From the earliest days of my administration, we pursu- — we’ve pursued a broad-based agenda to prove that American democracy can still do big things and take on challenges that matter most. That’s why we immediately passed what we call the American Rescue Plan to get shots in people’s arms as fast as possible at home and around the world to help get this pandemic under control, and to stimulate inclusive and lasting economic recovery that’s also helping to drive global growth. Last month, I was proud to sign a bipartisan piece of legislation, a true act of consensus between Democrats and Republicans in our country: the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act. This legislation will make a generational investment to deliver what people need most in the 21st century: clean water, safe roads, high-speed broadband Internet, and so much more — all of which strengthens our democracy by creating good-paying union jobs that will translate to lives of opportunity and dignity for working people, with better access to the tools and resources they need to thrive. And soon — and soon, I hope — I hope to sign into law a bill we call the Build Back Better plan, which will be an extraordinary investment in our people and our workers and give American families just a little more breathing room to deal with their problems and their opportunities. Our domestic agenda has been focused on delivering for the needs of the American people and strengthening our democratic institutions at home. On my first day in office, I signed an executive order to advance racial justice and equality. And my administration recently released our first National Strategy on Gender Equality and Equity. We’re fostering greater worker power, because workers organizing a union to give them the voice in their workplace, in their community, and their country isn’t just an act of economic solidarity, it’s democracy in action. We’re making it easy for Americans to register to vote, and we’ve doubled the number of attorneys defending and enforcing voting rights laws through our Department of Justice. And my administration is going to keep fighting to pass two critical pieces of legislation that will shore up the very foundation of American democracy: the sacred right of every person to make their voice heard through free, fair, and secure elections. We need to enact what we call the Freedom to Vote Act and the John Lewis Voting Rights Advancement Act to prevent voting discrimination, provide baselines for assessing — accessing the ballot box, and ensure the will of the voters is upheld, and so much more. We should be making it easy for people to vote, not harder. And that’s going to remain a priority for my administration until we get it done. Inaction is not an option. And as we continue to work at home to bring the United States closer to what we call a “more perfect union,” we’re doubling down on our engagement with and support of democracies around the world. Earlier this week, I released the first U.S. government Strategy on Countering Corruption, which elevates our fight against transnational corruption — a crime that drains public resources and hollows out the ability of governments to deliver for the people and just evaporates confidence that the people much need to have in their government. The strategy includes working with other partners — all of you around the world — to improve transparency, hold corrupt actors accountable, reduce their ability to use the United States and international financial systems to hide assets and to launder money. And today, I’m proud to launch the Presidential Initiative for Democratic Renewal, which will focus efforts across diplomacy — across our diplomacy and foreign assistance programs to bolster democratic resilience and human rights and — globally. Working with our Congress, we’re planning to commit as much as $224 million in the next year to shore up transparent and accountable governance, including supporting media freedom, fighting international corruption, standing with democratic reformers, promoting technology that advances democracy, and defining and defending what a fair election is. Let me give you a few examples of the kind of work this initiative is — will entail: a free and independent media. It’s the bedrock of democracy. It’s how the public stay informed and how governments are held accountable. And around the world, press freedom is under threat. So, we’re committing critical seed money to launch a new multilateral effort — our International Fund for Public Interest Media — to sustain independent media around the world. And through the — our USAID, we’re going to be standing up a new Defamation Defense Fund for Journalists to help protect investigative journalists against nuisance lawsuits designed to prevent them from doing their work — their vital work around the world. We’re going to launch new programs to help connect anti-corrup- — anti-corruption activities across civil society, the media, academia, labor, and protect whistleblowers and help partners eliminate money laundering and safe havens. To ensure that our democracies are strengthening by the voice — are strengthened by the voice of all citizens, this Presidential Initiative includes programs to advance women and girls and civic engagement and political leadership, empowering the LGBTQL community — plus community — individuals to participate in democratic institutions, promote labor law reform, working or — and worker organizations. It includes new lines of efforts with our partners to address online harassment and abuse, and reduce the potential for countries to abuse new technologies, including surveillance technologies, to suppress the rights of their people to express their views. And we’ll stand up two — and we’re going to stand up two rapid-response, cross-cutting initiatives that support the key goals of this summit: the Fund for Democratic Renewal and the Partnership for Democ- — for Democracy program. It’s going to allow State Department and USAID to surge funds to support our partners working on democratic frontlines around the world. My fellow leaders, members of civil society, activists, advocates, citizens: We stand at an inflection point in our history, in my view. The choices we make, in my view, in the next — in this moment are going to fundamentally determine the direction our world is going to take in the coming decades. Will we allow the backward slide of rights and democracy to continue unchecked? Or will we together — together — have a vision and the vision — not just “a” vision, “the” vision — and courage to once more lead the march of human progress and human freedom forward? I believe we can do that and we will if we have faith in ourselves, in our — and in our democracies, and in each other. That’s what this summit is about. I’m so looking forward to a productive session and discussions that we’ll have — we’ll have over the next two days. I’m looking forward to the connections we’ll build to support our work moving forward. So, let’s get to work. Thank you all so very much for your patience. 8:25 A.M. EST
Thank you all for joining us today. I think the Prime Minister may be still occupied in another part of the building, so we’re going to begin. We’re going to bring our shared attention to a vital issue that is impacting on all of our countries: supply chain disruptions. Supply chains are something that most of our citizens never think twice about until something goes wrong. And during this pandemic, we’ve seen delays and backlogs of goods — from automobiles to electronics, from shoes to furniture. Ending the pandemic is the ultimate key to unlocking the disruptions we’re all contending with. But we have to take action now, together with our partners in the private sector, to reduce the backlogs that we’re facing. And then, we have to prevent this from happening again in the future. Now that we have seen how vulnerable these lines of global commerce can be, we cannot go back to business as usual. This pandemic won’t be the last global health crisis we face. We also need to increase our resilience in the face of climate change, natural disasters, and even planned attacks. Many of our supply chains are almost entirely owned and operated by the private sector. But government can play a key role identifying supply chain risks and bringing the different pieces and actors together to address these vulnerabilities. In the United States, my administration has focused on this from our earliest days of the administration, which is not that long ago — just January 20th of this year. In February, we began directing new investments to strengthen supply chains at home and to work with partners to bolster supply chains around the world. Last month, we launched an early warning system to help get ahead of the global supply chain disruptions from — for computer chips, which impacts so many industries in my country and all of yours. Just a few weeks ago, we were able to facilitate an agreement with key unions, retailers, and freight movers to begin operating two of the largest ports in the United States that account for 40 percent of the imports on the West Coast: the Port of Los Angeles and the Port of Long Beach, California. So, we got them to move from 5 days a week, 8 hours a day, to 24 hours a day and 7 days a week. I’m going to help get — it’s going to help get goods on the shelves faster. And our Build Back Better framework provides, for the first time, funding dedicated to monitoring and strengthening supply chains. Today, I’m announcing two further steps: First, I’m allocating additional funding to help American partners, as well as the United States, cut port congestion by slashing red tape and reducing processing times so that ships can get in and out of our ports faster. And second, I’m signing an executive order that will strengthen our management of the United States defense stockpiles for minerals and materials. It’ll allow us — allow us to react and respond more quickly to shortfalls in the industrial base. I urge all of you — all of you — to consider bolstering your stockpiles critical to national security in your countries. But like so many challenges today, it isn’t a problem any one of our nations can solve through unilateral actions. Coordination is the key — the reason for this meeting. The best way to reduce current delays and build in greater resilience for the future is to work together across the entire supply chain, from raw materials to warehousing and distribution. Our supply chain should be: one, diversified, so that we’re not dependent on any one single source that might cause a failure; secure — secure against natural and manmade threats, including cyber and criminal attacks, like ransomware; and transparent so that both government and the private sector can better anticipate and respond to shortages that may be coming down the pike; and sustainable, to ensure our supply chains are free from forced and child labor, supporting the dignity and the voice of workers and are in line with our climate goals. Because at the end of the day, supply chain resilience is really about all of our people, the workers around the world who make the flow of goods possible — factory workers, dockworkers, welders, shipping crews, truckers, childcare providers, locomotives, so many other pieces. Solving this is going to take all of us — government and private industry, labor unions and research institutions. So, I’m directing my Secretary of State — Secretaries of State and Commerce to chair a multi-stakeholder forum in the beginning of next year to bring all these key parties together with relevant officials from all of our governments to chart a path forward. I look forward to hearing from each of you and finding ways we can work together to increase our resilience and enhance our shared prosperity. Now I’m going to turn it over to Secretary Blinken to actually make sure the trains run on time here. 5:36 P.M. CET
Well, thank you, Sultan, for bringing us together today. And I might say, it’s good to see you again. We met when I was a United States senator. You would — we’ve established a relationship, and it’s good to see you looking well and running this meeting. Brunei’s leadership has been vital to seeing ASEAN through a very challenging year. And it is my hope that in the future we’ll be able to hold these meetings in person again, because the relationship between the United States and ASEAN is vital — vital for the future of all one billion of our people. Our partnership is essential in maintaining a free and open Indo-Pacific, which has been the foundation of our shared security and prosperity for many decades. And the United States strongly supports the ASEAN Outlook and the Indo-Pacific — on the Indo-Pacific and the rules-based regional order. Our continued cooperation is only growing more important — not less — more important as we strive together to meet the challenges that are going to shape the 21st century moving forward: tackling the COVID-19 pandemic, taking on the climate crisis, strengthening our cyber defenses, and producing new technologies, upholding freedom of the seas and commerce, and so much more. So much more. So I’m looking forward to hearing from each of you and to our discussion today, but I want you all to hear directly from me the importance the United States places on our relationship with ASEAN. You can expect to see us showing up as Vice President Harris did with her recent trip to the region. You can expect to see me personally showing up and reaching out to you. You can expect to see the United States deepening our longstanding cooperation, pursuing new avenues of ministerial dialogue, investing in our countries, and driving inclusive prosperity in this critical region. In fact, we intend to launch a new program and initiatives to enhance our cooperation across the range of issues totaling more than $100 million. Our bottom line is that ASEAN is essential, I want to say — it is essential to the regional architecture of the Indo-Pacific. And the United States is committed to ASEAN’s centrality. You know, it’s a linchpin. It’s a linchpin for maintaining the resilience, the prosperity, and security of our shared region. And I want you to know I’m looking forward to working with you to advance not only our many shared interests, but our shared values and shared vision for a region where every country can compete and succeed on a level playing field and all nations, no matter how big or powerful, abide by the law. So I want to thank you all for this opportunity. And I look forward to this being the first of many meetings. 9:08 A.M. EDT
Please, sit down. Thank you. Well, good afternoon, everyone. I know you’re hearing a lot about something called “supply chains” and how hard it is to get a range of things from a toaster to sneakers to a bicycle to bedroom furniture. And that’s why, back in February, I signed a piece of legislation on supply chain — an executive order on supply chains. And, well, we had to move on it. And with the holidays coming up, you might be wondering if the gifts you planned to buy will arrive on time. Well, let me explain: “Supply chains” essentially mean how we make things and how the material and parts get delivered to factory — a factory so we can manufacture things and manufacture them here; how we move things — how a finished product moves from a factory, to a store, to your home. And today, we have an important announcement that will get things you buy to you, to the shelves faster. I’m joined by the executive directors of the Ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach, Gene Seroka and Mari- — Mario Cordono . I miss- — I apologize, Mario. That the — and the president of the International Longshoremen’s Union, Willie Adams. Los Angeles and Long Beach are home to two of the largest point — ports in America. And together, these ports are among the largest in the world. And the best way to make that point is that 40 percent — 40 percent of shipping containers that we import into this country come through these two ports. And today, we have some good news: They’re going to help speed up the delivery of goods all across America. After weeks of negotiation and working with my team and with the major union and retailers and freight movers, the Ports of Los Angeles — the Port of Los Angeles announced today that it’s going to be — begin operating 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. This follows the Port of Long Beach’s commitment to 24/7 that it announced just weeks ago. Twenty-four/seven system — what most of the leading countries in the world already operate on now, except us, until now. This is the first key step toward moving our entire freight transportation and logistical supply chain, nationwide, to a 24/7 system. And here’s why it matters: Traditionally, our ports have only been open during the week — Monday through Friday — and they’re generally closed down at nights and on weekends. By staying open seven days a week, through the night and on the weekends, the Port of Los Angeles will open — over 60 extra hours a week it will be open. In total, that will almost double the number of hours that the port is open for business from earlier this year. That means an increase in the hours for workers to be moving cargo off ships and onto trucks and railcars to get to their destination. And more than that, the night hours are critical for increasing the movement of goods because highways — highways are less crowded in the evening — at night. In fact, during off-peak hours in Los Angeles, cargo leaves the port at a 25 percent faster pace than during the day shift. So, by increasing the number of late-night hours of operation and opening up for less-crowded hours when the goods can move faster, today’s announcement has the potential to be a gamechanger. I say “potential” because all of these goods won’t move by themselves. For the — for the positive impact to be felt all — all across the country and by all of you at home, we need the major retailers who ordered the goods and the freight movers who take the goods from the ships to factories and to stores to step up as well. These provi- — these private sector companies are the ones that hire the trucks and railcars and move the goods. On this score, we have some good news to report as well. Today, Walmart, our nation’s largest retailer, is committing to go all in on moving this product — its products 24/7 from the ports to their stores nationwide. Specifically, Walmart is committing as much as a 50 percent increase in the use of off-peak hours over the next several weeks. Additionally, FedEx and UPS, two of our nation’s biggest freight movers, are committing today to significantly increase the amount of goods they are moving at night. FedEx and UPS are the shippers for some of our nation’s largest stores, but they also ship for tens of thousands of small businesses all across America. Their commitment to go all in on 24/7 operations means that businesses of all sizes will get their goods on shelves faster and more reliably. Accordingly — according to one estimate: Together, FedEx and UPS alone move up to 40 percent of packages in America — up to 40 percent. And other companies are stepping as well. They include Target, Home Depot, and Samsung that have all committed to ramp up their activities to utilize off-peak hours at the ports. So, the commitments being made today are a sign of major progress in moving goods from manufacturers to a store or to your front door. I want to thank my Supply Chain Disruptions Task Force, which we set up in June, led by Secretaries Buttigieg, Raimondo, and Vilsack, and by my Director of National Economic Council, Brian Deese. I want to thank them for their leadership. And I especially want to thank Joe Porcari. And I think Joe has done one heck of job — my special envoy, specifically on ports, who has been working this issue with all of the stakeholders for the past several weeks. I also want to thank the port directors. I want to thank Gene and Mario again and the mayors of Los Angeles and Long Beach, Mayor Garcetti and Mayor Garcia, for their leadership. And I think the private companies that are stepping up — I want to thank them. Thank them. But I particularly want to thank labor: Willie Adams of the Longshoremen and Warehouses Union, who is here today; the Teamsters; the rail unions from the Brotherhood of Railroad Signalmen; and the International Association of Mechan- — of Machinists; to the American Train Dispatchers Association; to Sheet Metal, Air, and Rail, and Transportation Workers Union, known as “SMART.” I want to be clear: This is across-the-board commitment to going to 24/7. This is a big first step in speeding up the movement of materials and goods through our supply chain. But now we need the rest of the private sector chain to step up as well. This is not called a “supply chain” for nothing. This means the terminal operators, railways, trucking companies, shippers, and other retailers as well. Strengthening our supply chains will continue to be my team’s focus. If federal support is needed, I will direct all appropriate action. And if the private sector doesn’t step up, we’re going to call them out and ask them to act. Because our goal is not only to get through this immediate bottleneck, but to address the longstanding weaknesses in our transportation supply chain that this pandemic has exposed. I might add, parenthetically: One of the reasons why I think it’s very important that we get the — the infrastructure plan passed — my infrastructure plan — and that’s the supply chain system is almost entirely in the hands of private business. The world has changed. Prior to the crisis, we cheered, you know, the focus on lean, efficient supply chains, leaving no buffer or margin for error when it comes to certain parts arriving just in time it’s needed to make a final product. And our administration — Barack and ours — we — that’s when it was — “just in time” was the focus. We didn’t have a pandemic and other things at the time. We need to take a longer view, though, that invests in building greater resilience to withstand the kinds of shocks we’ve seen over and over, year in and year out, whether it’s the pandemic, extreme weather, climate change, cyberattacks, or other disruptions. In fact, research tells us that a company can expect to lose over 40 percent of one year’s earnings every 10 years due to supply-chain disruptions. A longer-term view means we invest in systems that have more time built in and in our ability to produce, innovate, and partner with our allies. It also means companies throughout the supply chain — like maritime, air freight, and trucking companies — reduce their carbon emissions and help to meet our climate change goals. It also means creating and supporting good-paying jobs so folks want to stay in these jobs, so they can build the skills and careers and to make a decent living. It means more opportunities to join a union, especially for truckers. These steps are critical. They allow companies to pivot quickly when a disruption hits because they’ve invested in their workers, their workers’ skills, and training upfront to be able to adapt. We need to invest in making more of our products right here in the United States. Never again should our country and our economy be unable to make critical products we need because we don’t have access to materials to make that product. Never again should we have to rely too heavily on one company or one country or one person in the world, particularly when countries don’t share our values when it comes to labor and environmental standards. I’ve said before: We’re in comp- — we’re in the competition for the 21st century. We are America. We still have the most productive workers and the most innovative minds in the world. But the rest of the world is closing in, and we risk losing our edge if we don’t step up. In order to be globally competitive, we need to improve our capacity to make things here in America while also moving finished products across the country and around the world. We need to think big and bold. That’s why I’m pushing for a once-in-a-generation investment in our infrastructure and our people with my infrastructure bill and my Build Back Better Act. These bills would transfor- — transform our ports — there’s million- — billions of dollars for ports, highways, rail systems that sorely need upgrading — and would bring products faster and more efficiently from the factories, to the store, to your house. Let me be clear: We’re proposing to make the biggest investment in ports in our history. The bill would also make investments in our supply chains and manufacturing and strengthening our ability to make more goods, from the beginning to end, right here in America. The bottom line: We’ve seen the cost of inaction in the pandemic in the delays and the congestion that affect every American. But it’s fully within our capacity to act to make sure it never happens again — it’s going to take a little time — and that we unlock the full might and dynamism of our economy and our people. That’s what we’re going to do. God bless you all. And may God bless the longshoremen, rail workers, truckers, and all the workers who are keeping our economy going. And may God protect our troops. Thank you all so very much. 3:11 P.M. EDT
Good morning, everyone. And thank you for joining us today. As I said yesterday at the United Nations, nothing is more urgent than all of us working together to defeat COVID-19. And that — that world is going to be much better prepared for future pandemics. We have to do both. This summit is about supercharging our efforts in three key areas: vaccinating the world by dramatically ramping up vaccine production, donations, delivery, and administrating the vaccine, which is a logistical — it’s a logistical challenge; addressing the oxygen crisis in many hospitals around the world, making other treatments more accessible, and increasing the availability of public health tools like masks and tests; and building back better so that our global health security infrastructure is more resilient than it is today. We’ve all suffered. The United States has lost more than 670,000 of our fellow Americans. Worldwide, the death toll is above 4.5 million people — 4.5 million people. And this is a global tragedy. And we — and we’re not going to solve this crisis with half-measures or middle-of-the-road ambitions. We need to go big. And we need to do our part: governments, the private sector, civil society leaders, philanthropists. This is an all-hands-on-deck crisis. And the good news is, we know how to beat this pandemic: vaccines, public health measures, and collective action. During the first eight months of my presidency, we have worked aggressively to get Americans and the world vaccinated. As President of the United States, my first responsibility is to protect the American people. And I am proud that we have gone from 2 million Americans being fully vaccinated when I took office in January 20th to 182 million and counting, today, in America. But we also know that to beat the pandemic here, we need to beat it everywhere. And I made and I’m keeping the promise that America will become the arsenal of vaccines as we were the arsenal of democracy during World War Two. We have already shipped nearly 160 million doses to 100 countries, more than every other country has donated combined. America’s donations of a half a billion Pfizer vaccines through COVAX that I’ve announced before the G7 Summit in June have already begun to ship. Today, I’m announcing another historic commitment. The United States is buying another half billion doses of Pfizer to donate to low- and middle-income countries around the world. This is another half a billion doses that will all be shipped by this time next year. And it brings our total commitment to — of donati- — of donated vaccines to over 1.1 billion vaccines to be donated. Put another way, for every one shot we’ve administered to date in America, we have now committed to do three shots to the rest of the world. I want to thank Pfizer and its CEO and chairman, Albert. Albert has been a good friend and has been helpful. They’ve been and continue to be partners and a leader in this fight. And the United States is leading the world on vaccination donations. We need — as we’re doing that, we need other high-income countries to deliver on their own ambitious vaccine donations and pledges. That’s why, today, we’re launching the EU-U.S. vaccine partnership to work more closely together and with our partners on expanding global vaccinations. And as we do so, we should unite around the world on a few principles: that we commit to donating, not selling — donating, not selling, doses to low- and lower-income countries, and that the donations come with no political strings attached; and that we support COVAX as the main distributor for sharing WHO-approved vaccines; and that we fight vaccine disinformation and exercise transparency to build vital public trust in these lifesaving tools. It’s also important that we are working toward common goals and targets so that we can measure our progress and hold ourselves and each other accountable. Secretary of State Blinken will be convening foreign ministers later this year to check on our collective progress. And I propose that we come together for a second high-level virtual summit in the first quarter of 2022 to help gauge our progress and keep our efforts fully aligned. Another goal is dramatically boosting global and regional vaccine manufacturing capacity, enhancing transparency so that vaccine production and distribution is predictable and coordinated. In fact, an important part of the reason the United States is able to make these big, historic donations is because we’ve worked with U.S. vaccine manufacturers to accelerate the manufacturing rate and production. And now we’re working quickly to scale up vaccine manufacturing in other countries around the world so they can manufacture as well. We’re working with partner nations, pharmaceutical companies, and other manufacturers to increase their own capacity and capability to produce and manufacture safe and highly effective vaccines in their own countries. For example, our Quad partnership with India, Japan, and Australia is on track to help produce at least 1 billion vaccine doses in India to boost the global supply by the end of 2022. And we’re providing financing and helping strengthen manufacturing in South Africa and produce more than 500 million doses of J&J in Africa, for Africa next year. And next, we also know from experience that getting those vaccines into people’s arms may be the hardest logistical challenge we’ve faced. That’s why we need to significantly step up our investment in helping countries get shots in arms. Today, the United States is also announcing that we’re providing an additional $370 million to support administering these shots and delivery globally. And we will be providing more than $380 million to assist in the Global Vaccine Alliance — GAVI — to further facilitate vaccine distribution in regions in the greatest — with the greatest need. And while vaccinating the world is the ultimate solution to COVID-19, we know that we have to act to save lives now. That’s why the United States are providing nearly $1.4 billion to reduce COVID-19 deaths and mitigate transmission through bulk oxygen support, expanded testing, and strengthening healthcare systems and more. And we’re going to help all of us build back better by supporting the establishment of a financial mechanism for global health security — to simply state — to prepare for the next pandemic, because there will be a next time. We all know that. Vice President Harris will be speaking more on this issue later today. And finally, I want to acknowledge the leaders from the private sector, philanthropy, and civil society who are here today. Governments can do a lot, but we cannot do everything on our own. We’ve asked our nongovernmental partners to take up the call for new actions that will solve the core challenges of making vaccines available to everyone, everywhere; solving the oxygen availability crisis; financing health security; and more. And I’m grateful — I’m grateful for their leadership. And let me close by — with what I made clear yesterday at the U.N.: We can do this. This is within our capacity. We know what needs to be done. We just have to make the choice to do it. You know, the leaders on the screen that I see here today, I know they’ve made that choice. And I think they know we can do this. And I promise you, the United States will continue to lead. We’ll continue to drive historic commitments in vaccine donations — 1.1 billion and counting — so we can defeat COVID-19 together. And we’ll continue to invest in creating a future of true global health security for all people. That is a big, big goal I ha- — we have — we should have. And we’re going to lead with the power of our example. And we’re not going to stop. But the only way to get this done is for everyone, everywhere — is for all of us to step up, which I’m confident you will. And now I’d like to turn this over to Ambassador Thomas-Greenfield of the United Nations. And I want to thank everybody on the screen I can see here, without going to each one of you. 11:25 A.M. EDT
Mr. President, Mr. Secretary-General, my fellow delegates, to all those who dedicate themselves to this noble mission of this institution: It’s my honor to speak to you for the first time as President of the United States. We meet this year in a moment of — intermingled with great pain and extraordinary possibility. We’ve lost so much to this devastating — this devastating pandemic that continues to claim lives around the world and impact so much on our existence. We’re mourning more than 4.5 million people — people of every nation from every background. Each death is an individual heartbreak. But our shared grief is a poignant reminder that our collective future will hinge on our ability to recognize our common humanity and to act together. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the clear and urgent choice that we face here at the dawning of what must be a decisive decade for our world — a decade that will quite literally determine our futures. As a global community, we’re challenged by urgent and looming crises wherein lie enormous opportunities if — if — we can summon the will and resolve to seize these opportunities. Will we work together to save lives, defeat COVID-19 everywhere, and take the necessary steps to prepare ourselves for the next pandemic? For there will be another one. Or will we fail to harness the tools at our disposal as the more virulent and dangerous variants take hold? Will we meet the threat of challenging climate — the challenging climate we’re all feeling already ravaging every part of our world with extreme weather? Or will we suffer the merciless march of ever-worsening droughts and floods, more intense fires and hurricanes, longer heatwaves and rising seas? Will we affirm and uphold the human dignity and human rights under which nations in common cause, more than seven decades ago, formed this institution? Will we apply and strengthen the core tenets of inter- — of the international system, including the U.N. Charter and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, as we seek to shape the emergence of new technologies and deter new threats? Or will we allow these universal — those universal principles to be trampled and twisted in the pursuit of naked political power? In my view, how we answer these questions in this moment — whether we choose to fight for our shared future or not — will reverberate for generations yet to come. Simply put: We stand, in my view, at an inflection point in history. And I’m here today to share with you how the United States intends to work with partners and allies to answer these questions and the commitment of my new administration to help lead the world toward a more peaceful, prosperous future for all people. Instead of continuing to fight the wars of the past, we are fixing our eyes on devoting our resources to the challenges that hold the keys to our collective future: ending this pandemic; addressing the climate crisis; managing the shifts in global power dynamics; shaping the rules of the world on vital issues like trade, cyber, and emerging technologies; and facing the threat of terrorism as it stands today. We’ve ended 20 years of conflict in Afghanistan. And as we close this period of relentless war, we’re opening a new era of relentless diplomacy; of using the power of our development aid to invest in new ways of lifting people up around the world; of renewing and defending democracy; of proving that no matter how challenging or how complex the problems we’re going to face, government by and for the people is still the best way to deliver for all of our people. And as the United States turns our focus to the priorities and the regions of the world, like the Indo-Pacific, that are most consequential today and tomorrow, we’ll do so with our allies and partners, through cooperation at multilateral institutions like the United Nations, to amplify our collective strength and speed, our progress toward dealing with these global challenges. There’s a fundamental truth of the 21st century within each of our own countries and as a global community that our own success is bound up with others succeeding as well. To deliver for our own people, we must also engage deeply with the rest of the world. To ensure that our own future, we must work together with other partners — our partners — toward a shared future. Our security, our prosperity, and our very freedoms are interconnected, in my view, as never before. And so, I believe we must work together as never before. Over the last eight months, I have prioritized rebuilding our alliances, revitalizing our partnerships, and recognizing they’re essential and central to America’s enduring security and prosperity. We have reaffirmed our sacred NATO Alliance to Article 5 commitment. We’re working with our Allies toward a new strategic concept that will help our Alliance better take on evolving threats of today and tomorrow. We renewed our engagement with the European Union, a fundamental partner in tackling the full range of significant issues facing our world today. We elevated the Quad partnership among Australia, India, Japan, and the United States to take on challenges ranging from health security to climate to emerging technologies. We’re engaging with regional institutions — from ASEAN to the African Union to the Organization of American States — to focus on people’s urgent needs for better health and better economic outcomes. We’re back at the table in international forums, especially the United Nations, to focus attention and to spur global action on shared challenges. We are reengaged at the World Health Organization and working in close partnership with COVAX to deliver lifesaving vaccines around the world. We rejoined the Paris Climate Agreement, and we’re running to retake a seat on the Human Rights Council next year at the U.N. And as the United States seeks to rally the world to action, we will lead not just with the example of our power but, God willing, with the power of our example. Make no mistake: The United States will continue to defend ourselves, our Allies, and our interests against attack, including terrorist threats, as we prepare to use force if any is necessary, but — to defend our vital U.S. national interests, including against ongoing and imminent threats. But the mission must be clear and achievable, undertaken with the informed consent of the American people and, whenever possible, in partnership with our Allies. U.S. military power must be our tool of last resort, not our first, and it should not be used as an answer to every problem we see around the world. Indeed, today, many of our greatest concerns cannot be solved or even addressed through the force of arms. Bombs and bullets cannot defend against COVID-19 or its future variants. To fight this pandemic, we need a collective act of science and political will. We need to act now to get shots in arms as fast as possible and to expand access to oxygen, tests, treatments to save lives around the world. And for the future, we need to create a new mechanism to finance global health security that builds on our existing development assistance, and Global Health Thr- — and a Global Health Threat Counc- — Council that is armed with the tools we need to monitor and identify emerging pandemics so that we can take immediate action. Already, the United States has put more than $15 billion toward global COVID respon- — the global COVID response. We’ve shipped more than 160 million doses of COVID-19 vaccine to other countries. This includes 130 million doses from our own supply and the first tranches of the half a billion doses of Pfizer vaccine we purchased to donate through COVAX. Planes carrying vaccines from the United States have already landed in 100 countries, bringing people all over the world a little “dose of hope,” as one American nurse termed it to me. A “dose of hope,” direct from the American people — and, importantly, no strings attached. And tomorrow, at the U.S.-hosted Global 19 — COVID-19 Summit, I’ll be announcing additional commitments as we seek to advance the fight against COVID-19 and hold ourselves accountable around specific targets on three key challenges: saving lives now, vaccinating the world, and building back better. This year has also brought widespread death and devastation from the borderless climate crisis. The extreme weather events that we have seen in every part of the world — and you all know it and feel it — represent what the Secretary-General has rightly called “code red for humanity.” And the scientists and experts are telling us that we’re fast approaching a “point of no return,” in the literal sense. To keep within our reach the vital goal of limiting global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius, every nation needs to bring their highest-possible ambitions to the table when we meet in Glasgow for COP26 and then to have to keep raising our collective ambition over time. In April, I announced the United States’ ambitious new goal under the Paris Agreement to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the United States by 50 to 52 percent below 2005 levels by 2030, as we work toward achieving a clean-energy economy with net-zero emissions by 2050. And my administration is working closely with our Congress to make the critical investments in green infrastructure and electric vehicles that will help us lock in progress at home toward our climate goals. And the best part is: Making these ambitious investments isn’t just good climate policy, it’s a chance for each of our countries to invest in ourselves and our own future. It’s an enormous opportunity to create good-paying jobs for workers in each of our countries and to spur long-term economic growth that will improve the quality of life for all of our people. We also have to support the countries and people that will be hit hardest and that have the fewest resources to help them adapt. In April, I announced the United States will double our public international financing to help developing nations tackle the climate crisis. And today, I’m proud to announce that we’ll work with the Congress to double that number again, including for adaptation efforts. This will make the United States a leader in public climate finance. And with our added support, together with increased private capital and other — from other donors, we’ll be able to meet the goal of mobilizing $100 billion to support climate action in developing nations. As we deal with these crises, we’re also encountering a new era — an era of new technologies and possibilities that have the potential to release and reshape every aspect of human existence. And it’s up to all of us to determine whether these technologies are a force to empower people or to deepen repression. As new technologies continue to evolve, we’ll work together with our democratic partners to ensure that new advances in areas from biotechnology, to quantum computing, 5G, artificial intelligence, and more are used to lift people up, to solve problems, and advance human freedom — not to suppress dissent or target minority communities. And the United States intends to make a profound investment in research and innovation, working with countries at all stages of economic development to develop new tools and technologies to help us tackle the challenges of this second quarter of the 21st century and beyond. We’re hardening our critical infrastructure against cyberattacks, disrupting ransomware networks, and working to establish clear rules of the road for all nations as it relates to cyberspace. We reserve the right to respond decisively to cyberattacks that threaten our people, our allies, or our interests. We will pursue new rules of global trade and economic growth that strive to level the playing field so that it’s not artificially tipped in favor of any one country at the expense of others and every nation has a right and the opportunity to compete fairly. We will strive to ensure that basic labor rights, environmental safeguards, and intellectual property are protected and that the benefits of globalization are shared broadly throughout all our societies. We’ll continue to uphold the longstanding rules and norms that have formed the guardrails of international engagement for decades that have been essential to the development of nations around the world — bedrock commitments like freedom of navigation, adherence to international laws and treaties, support for arms control measures that reduce the res- — the risk and enhance transparency. Our approach is firmly grounded and fully consistent with the United Nations’ mission and the values we’ve agreed to when we drafted this Charter. These are commitments we all made and that we’re all bound to uphold. And as we strive to deal with these urgent challenges, whether they’re longstanding or newly emerging, we must also deal with one another. All the major powers of the world have a duty, in my view, to carefully manage their relationships so they do not tip from responsible competition to conflict. The United States will compete, and will compete vigorously, and lead with our values and our strength. We’ll stand up for our allies and our friends and oppose attempts by stronger countries to dominate weaker ones, whether through changes to territory by force, economic coercion, technological exploitation, or disinformation. But we’re not seeking — I’ll say it again — we are not seeking a new Cold War or a world divided into rigid blocs. The United States is ready to work with any nation that steps up and pursues peaceful resolution to shared challenges, even if we have intense disagreements in other areas — because we’ll all suffer the consequences of our failure if we do not come together to address the urgent threats like COVID-19 and climate change or enduring threats like nuclear proliferation. The United States remains committed to preventing Ira- — to preventing Iran from gaining a nuclear weapon. We are working with the P5+1 to engage Iran diplomatically and seek a return to the JCPOA. We’re prepared to return to full compliance if Iran does the same. Similarly, we seek serious and sustained diplomacy to pursue the complete denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula. We seek concrete progress toward an available plan with tangible commitments that would increase stability on the Peninsula and in the region, as well as improve the lives of the people in the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. We must also remain vigilant to the threat of terr- — that terrorism poses to all our nations, whether emanating from distant regions of the world or in our own backyards. We know the bitter string of terrorism — the bitter sting of terrorism is — is real, and we’ve almost all experienced it. Last month, we lost 13 American heroes and almost 200 innocent Afghan civilians in the heinous terrorist attack at the Kabul airport. Those who commit acts of terrorism against us will continue to find a determined enemy in the United States. The world today is not the world of 2001, though, and the United States is not the same country we were when we were attacked on 9/11, 20 years ago. Today, we’re better equipped to detect and prevent terrorist threats, and we are more resilient in our ability to repel them and to respond. We know how to build effective partnerships to dismantle terrorist networks by targeting their financing and support systems, countering their propaganda, preventing their travel, as well as disrupting imminent attacks. We’ll meet terrorist threats that arise today and in the future with a full range of tools available to us, including working in cooperation with local partners so that we need not be so reliant on large-scale military deployments. One of the most important ways we can effectively enhance security and reduce violence is by seeking to improve the lives of the people all over the world who see that their governments are not serving their needs. Corruption fuels inequality, siphons off a nation’s resources, spreads across borders, and generates human suffering. It is nothing less than a national security threat in the 21st century. Around the world, we’re increasingly seeing citizens demonstrate their discontent seeing the wealthy and well-connected grow richer and richer, taking payoffs and bribes, operating above the law while the vast majority of the people struggle to find a job or put food on the table or to get their business off the ground or simply send their children to school. People have taken to the streets in every region to demand that their governments address peoples’ basic needs, give everyone a fair shot to succeed, and protect their God-given rights. And in that chorus of voices across languages and continents, we hear a common cry: a cry for dignity — simple dignity. As leaders, it is our duty to answer that call, not to silence it. The United States is committing to use — committed to using our resources and our international platform to support these voices, listen to them, partner with them to find ways to respond that advance human dignity around the world. For example, there is an enormous need for infrastructure in developing countries, but infrastructure that is low-quality or that feeds corruption or exacerbates environmental degradation may only end up contributing to greater challenges for countries over time. Done the right way, however, with transparent, sustainable investment in projects that respond to the country’s needs and engage their local workers to maintain high labor and environmental standards, infrastructure can be a strong foundation that allows societies in low- and middle-income countries to grow and to prosper. That’s the idea behind the Build Back Better World. And together with the private sector and our G7 partners, we aim to mobilize hundreds of billions of dollars in infrastructure investment. We also — we’ll also continue to be the world’s largest contributor to humanitarian assistance, bringing food, water, shelter, emergency healthcare, and other vital, lifesaving aid to millions of people in need. When the earthquake strikes, a typhoon rages, or a disaster anywhere in the world, the United States shows up. We’ll be ready to help. And at a time when nearly one in three people globally do not have access to adequate food — adequate food, just last year — the United States is committing to rallying our partners to address immediate malnutrition and to ensure that we can sustainably feed the world for decades to come. To that end, the United States is making a $10 billion commitment to end hunger and invest in food systems at home and abroad. Since 2000, the United States government has provided more than $140 billion to advance health and strengthen health systems, and we will continue our leadership to drive these vital investments to make peoples’ lives better every single day. Just give them a little breathing room. And as we strive to make lives better, we must work with renewed purpose to end the conflicts that are driving so much pain and hurt around the world. We must redouble our diplomacy and commit to political negotiations, not violence, as the tool of first resort to manage tensions around the world. We must seek a future of greater peace and security for all the people of the Middle East. The commitment of the United States to Israel’s security is without question. And a support — our support for an independent, Jewish state is unequivocal. But I continue to believe that a two-state solution is the best way to ensure Israel — Israel’s future as a Jewish, democratic state living in peace alongside a viable, sovereign, and democratic Palestinian state. We’re a long way from that goal at this moment, but we must never allow ourselves to give up on the possibility of progress. We cannot give up on solving raging civil conflicts, including in Ethiopia and Yemen, where fighting between war- –warring parties is driving famine, horrori- — horrific violence, human rights violations against civilians, including the unconscionable use of rape as a weapon of war. We will continue to work with the international community to press for peace and bring an end to this suffering. As we pursue diplomacy across the board, the United States will champion the democratic values that go to the very heart of who we are as a nation and a people: freedom, equality, opportunity, and a belief in the universal rights of all people. It’s stamped into our DNA as a nation. And critically, it’s stamped into the DNA of this institution — the United States . We sometimes forget. I quote the opening words of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, quote: “The equal and inalienable rights of all members of the human family is the foundation of freedom, justice, and peace in the world.” The founding ethos of the United Nations places the rights of individuals at the center of our system, and that clarity and vision must not be ignored or misinterpreted. The United States will do our part, but we will be more successful and more impactful if all of our nations are working toward the full mission to which we are called. That’s why more than 100 nations united agai- — around a shared statement and the Security Council adopted a resolution outlining how we’ll support the people of Afghanistan moving forward, laying out the expectations to which we will hold the Taliban when it comes to respecting universal human rights. We all must advocate for women — the rights of women and girls to use their full talents to contribute economically, politically, and socially and pursue their dreams free of violence and intimidation — from Central America to the Middle East, to Africa, to Afghanistan — wherever it appears in the world. We all must call out and condemn the targeting and oppression of racial, ethnic, and religious minorities when it occurs in — whether it occurs in Xinjiang or northern Ethiopia or anywhere in the world. We all must defend the rights of LGBTQI individuals so they can live and love openly without fear, whether it’s Chechnya or Cameroon or anywhere. As we steer our — steer our nations toward this inflection point and work to meet today’s fast-moving, cross-cutting challenges, let me be clear: I am not agnostic about the future we want for the world. The future will belong to those who embrace human dignity, not trample it. The future will belong to those who unleash the potential of their people, not those who stifle it. The future will belong to those who give their people the ability to breathe free, not those who seek to suffocate their people with an iron hand. Authoritarianism — the authoritarianism of the world may seek to proclaim the end of the age of democracy, but they’re wrong. The truth is: The democratic world is everywhere. It lives in the anti-corruption activists, the human rights defenders, the journalists, the peace protestors on the frontlines of this struggle in Belarus, Burma, Syria, Cuba, Venezuela, and everywhere in between. It lives in the brave women of Sudan who withstood violence and oppression to push a genocidal dictator from power and who keep working every day to defend their democratic progress. It lives in the proud Moldovans who helped deliver a landslide victory for the forces of democracy, with a mandate to fight graft, to build a more inclusive economy. It lives in the young people of Zambia who harnessed the power of their vote for the first time, turning out in record numbers to denounce corruption and chart a new path for their country. And while no democracy is perfect, including the United States — who will continue to struggle to live up to the highest ideals to heal our divisions, and we face down violence and insurrection — democracy remains the best tool we have to unleash our full human potential. My fellow leaders, this is a moment where we must prove ourselves the equals of those who have come before us, who with vision and values and determined faith in our collective future built our United Nations, broke the cycle of war and destruction, and laid the foundations for more than seven decades of relative peace and growing global prosperity. Now we must again come together to affirm the inherent humanity that unites us is much greater than any outward divisions or disagreements. We must choose to do more than we think we can do alone so that we accomplish what we must, together: ending this pandemic and making sure we’re better prepared for the next one; staving off climactic climate change and increasing our resilience to the impacts we already are seeing; ensuring a future where technologies are a vital tool to solving human challenges and empowering human potential, not a source of greater strife and repression. These are the challenges that we — will determine what the world looks like for our children and our grandchildren, and what they’ll inherit. We can only meet them by looking to the future. I stand here today, for the first time in 20 years, with the United States not at war. We’ve turned the page. All the unmatched strength, energy, commitment, will, and resources of our nation are now fully and squarely focused on what’s ahead of us, not what was behind. I know this: As we look ahead, we will lead. We will lead on all the greatest challenges of our time — from COVID to climate, peace and security, human dignity and human rights. But we will not go it alone. We will lead together with our Allies and partners and in cooperation with all those who believe, as we do, that this is within our power to meet these challenges, to build a future that lifts all of our people and preserves this planet. But none of this is inevitable; it’s a choice. And I can tell you where America stands: We will choose to build a better future. We — you and I –- we have the will and capacity to make it better. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot afford to waste any more time. Let’s get to work. Let’s make our better future now. We can do this. It’s within our power and capacity. Thank you, and God bless you all. 10:34 A.M. EDT
It’s good to see you all. Good morning. Thank you, Secretary Blinken. And a special thanks to Special Envoy Kerry. John has been a friend for a long time, and I have absolute trust in his leadership on this issue. We’re honored to host all of you today as a — as a follow up to the Leaders Summit on Climate we hosted back in April. That summit made good on a commitment that I made to the American people that the United States would return immediately to the world stage and address the climate crisis. I wanted to show that we’re at an inflection point, and that there’s a real consensus — a real consensus that while the climate crisis poses an existential threat, there is a silver lining. The climate crisis also presents real and incredible economic opportunities to create jobs and lift up the standard of living of people around the world. And I want to thank you and your efforts so far that I — and I need — I need to tell you the consequences of inaction. But you all actually know it. It’s somewhat presumptuous for me to say this. But over the last two weeks, I’ve traveled across the United States to see the damage and destruction from record hurricanes, record floods, and wildfires. China continues across — excuse me — climate continues to change across Europe, Africa, and Latin America. And we’ve — and you’ve endured massive flooding. Fires have raged across Australia and the Amazon and the Russian tundra. In Siberia — this sounds — I found it almost unbelievable — temperatures reached 118 degrees — 118 degrees — inside the Arctic Circle. The finding from the new Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change represents a code red for humanity. And the time to act is really narrowing, as the Secretary just pointed out, to get to — close to a point of no return. We don’t have a lot of time. So we have to act — all of us. We have to act, and we have to act now. When we met in April, we agreed to strengthen our efforts as we head to COP26 in Glasgow. Today, I’ve called us together again to candidly assess our progress. I’m grateful to those of you who’ve — who’ve strengthened your contributions under the Paris Climate Agreement and put forward ambitious targets for 2030. And thanks to your leadership, countries representing more than half of the global GDP are committed to taking steps that will keep us within reach of our joint pursuit of limiting warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius. But — but we know there’s still a lot of work to do, and, if anything, our job has — in my view — has grown more urgent. The countries representing the Major Economies Forum account for 80 percent of global emissions. Without adequate commitments from every nation in this room, the goal of limiting warming to 1.5 degrees slips through our hands. And that’s a disaster. And here’s what I believe we have to do right now and what we — we’re advancing here in the United States: We have to bring to Glasgow — we have to bring to Glasgow our highest possible ambitions. Those that have not yet done so, time is running out. For our part, in America, I’m working to pass historic investment in — to modernize our more climate-resilient infrastructure, to build a clean energy future that creates millions of jobs and ushers in new industries of the future. As part of this work, the United States has committed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions between 50 and 52 percent below 2005 levels by the year 2030. And, you know, we’ve set a goal that by 2025 our power sector will be with — free of carbon. And 2030, 50 percent of cars sold in the United States, we believe, should be and must be electric vehicles. A further step we’re working with the European Union and other partners to launch is a Global Methane Pledge to reduce global methane emissions by at least 30 percent below 2020 levels by 2030. This will not only rapidly reduce the rate of global warming, but it will also produce a very valuable side benefit, like improving public health and agricultural output. We’re — we’re mobilizing support to help developing countries that join and pledge to do something significant — pledge and seize this virtual opportunity. You know, we’ve already taken big steps domestically to tackle these emissions and create good-paying jobs, introduced by plugging leaks and capping abandoned wells and gas wells. We believe the collective goal is both ambitious but realistic. And we urge you to join us in announcing this pledge at COP26. Now, you know, we also have to make additional progress to support developing countries. At the time, at the Leaders Summit in April, I announced the United States is working to double our climate finance, triple our support for adaptation by 2024 for developing nations. And I can assure you that we’re looking for ways to go even further toward meeting the collective goal of mobilizing $100 billion a year from the developing world and for them . The next — our emphasis this year is going to be on building the — building ambition on the — on the road to Glasgow. Glasgow is not our final destination. Whatever commitments we make at COP26, we must all resolve together in Glasgow to continue strengthening our ambition and our actions next year and throughout the decisive decade to keep us at one point — below 1.5 degrees and to keep that within reach. That’s why this forum, I believe, is so important. And it was an important driver in the Paris Climate Agreement. You know, it was — we got to continue to play a vital role going forward. At this crucial juncture — to start — the start of a decisive decade –- I’d like us to — I’d like to use this forum to forge a political momentum and consensus to drive concrete actions in four key spheres of energy, industry, land, the ocean. And I want to be clear: This forum will — will complement, not substitute, for other forums. In fact, with respect to energy and industry, we will closely align our efforts with the work of the forums like the Clean Energy Ministerial and the Mission Innovation — both of which, I’m proud to say, the United States will chair next year. I plan to kick off these efforts by bringing together ministers in January to discuss clean energy goals in power, transport, industry, building sector. We also want to focus on — on ocean initiatives in advance of Our Ocean Conference in — next February. You know, I — I plan to convene a leaders-level gathering so we can take stock of the collective progress we’ve made. In closing — and thank you for your patience — I want to again underscore both the urgency of this moment and the tremendous opportunity before us. I look forward to continuing this work — work together and hearing how you plan to contribute to the climate ambition the world so urgently needs. The time is now. The time is now. And thank you for your indulgence. I’m now going to turn this over to Special Envoy John Kerry, but thank you. 8:41 A.M. EDT
Last night in Kabul, the United States ended 20 years of war in Afghanistan — the longest war in American history. We completed one of the biggest airlifts in history, with more than 120,000 people evacuated to safety. That number is more than double what most experts thought were possible. No nation — no nation has ever done anything like it in all of history. Only the United States had the capacity and the will and the ability to do it, and we did it today. The extraordinary success of this mission was due to the incredible skill, bravery, and selfless courage of the United States military and our diplomats and intelligence professionals. For weeks, they risked their lives to get American citizens, Afghans who helped us, citizens of our Allies and partners, and others onboard planes and out of the country. And they did it facing a crush of enormous crowds seeking to leave the country. And they did it knowing ISIS-K terrorists — sworn enemies of the Taliban — were lurking in the midst of those crowds. And still, the men and women of the United States military, our diplomatic corps, and intelligence professionals did their job and did it well, risking their lives not for professional gains but to serve others; not in a mission of war but in a mission of mercy. Twenty servicemembers were wounded in the service of this mission. Thirteen heroes gave their lives. I was just at Dover Air Force Base for the dignified transfer. We owe them and their families a debt of gratitude we can never repay but we should never, ever, ever forget. In April, I made the decision to end this war. As part of that decision, we set the date of August 31st for American troops to withdraw. The assumption was that more than 300,000 Afghan National Security Forces that we had trained over the past two decades and equipped would be a strong adversary in their civil wars with the Taliban. That assumption — that the Afghan government would be able to hold on for a period of time beyond military drawdown — turned out not to be accurate. But I still instructed our national security team to prepare for every eventuality — even that one. And that’s what we did. So, we were ready when the Afghan Security Forces — after two decades of fighting for their country and losing thousands of their own — did not hold on as long as anyone expected. We were ready when they and the people of Afghanistan watched their own government collapse and their president flee amid the corruption and malfeasance, handing over the country to their enemy, the Taliban, and significantly increasing the risk to U.S. personnel and our Allies. As a result, to safely extract American citizens before August 31st — as well as embassy personnel, Allies and partners, and those Afghans who had worked with us and fought alongside of us for 20 years — I had authorized 6,000 troops — American troops — to Kabul to help secure the airport. As General McKenzie said, this is the way the mission was designed. It was designed to operate under severe stress and attack. And that’s what it did. Since March, we reached out 19 times to Americans in Afghanistan, with multiple warnings and offers to help them leave Afghanistan — all the way back as far as March. After we started the evacuation 17 days ago, we did initial outreach and analysis and identified around 5,000 Americans who had decided earlier to stay in Afghanistan but now wanted to leave. Our Operation Allied Rescue ended up getting more than 5,500 Americans out. We got out thousands of citizens and diplomats from those countries that went into Afghanistan with us to get bin Laden. We got out locally employed staff of the United States Embassy and their families, totaling roughly 2,500 people. We got thousands of Afghan translators and interpreters and others, who supported the United States, out as well. Now we believe that about 100 to 200 Americans remain in Afghanistan with some intention to leave. Most of those who remain are dual citizens, long-time residents who had earlier decided to stay because of their family roots in Afghanistan. The bottom line: Ninety percent of Americans in Afghanistan who wanted to leave were able to leave. And for those remaining Americans, there is no deadline. We remain committed to get them out if they want to come out. Secretary of State Blinken is leading the continued diplomatic efforts to ensure a safe passage for any American, Afghan partner, or foreign national who wants to leave Afghanistan. In fact, just yesterday, the United Nations Security Council passed a resolution that sent a clear message about what the international community expects the Taliban to deliver on moving forward, notably freedom of travel, freedom to leave. And together, we are joined by over 100 countries that are determined to make sure the Taliban upholds those commitments. It will include ongoing efforts in Afghanistan to reopen the airport, as well as overland routes, allowing for continued departure to those who want to leave and delivery of humanitarian assistance to the people of Afghanistan. The Taliban has made public commitments, broadcast on television and radio across Afghanistan, on safe passage for anyone wanting to leave, including those who worked alongside Americans. We don’t take them by their word alone but by their actions, and we have leverage to make sure those commitments are met. Let me be clear: Leaving August the 31st is not due to an arbitrary deadline; it was designed to save American lives. My predecessor, the former President, signed an agreement with the Taliban to remove U.S. troops by May the 1st, just months after I was inaugurated. It included no requirement that the Taliban work out a cooperative governing arrangement with the Afghan government, but it did authorize the release of 5,000 prisoners last year, including some of the Taliban’s top war commanders, among those who just took control of Afghanistan. And by the time I came to office, the Taliban was in its strongest military position since 2001, controlling or contesting nearly half of the country. The previous administration’s agreement said that if we stuck to the May 1st deadline that they had signed on to leave by, the Taliban wouldn’t attack any American forces, but if we stayed, all bets were off. So we were left with a simple decision: Either follow through on the commitment made by the last administration and leave Afghanistan, or say we weren’t leaving and commit another tens of thousands more troops going back to war. That was the choice — the real choice — between leaving or escalating. I was not going to extend this forever war, and I was not extending a forever exit. The decision to end the military airlift operations at Kabul airport was based on the unanimous recommendation of my civilian and military advisors — the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Defense, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and all the service chiefs, and the commanders in the field. Their recommendation was that the safest way to secure the passage of the remaining Americans and others out of the country was not to continue with 6,000 troops on the ground in harm’s way in Kabul, but rather to get them out through non-military means. In the 17 days that we operated in Kabul after the Taliban seized power, we engaged in an around-the-clock effort to provide every American the opportunity to leave. Our State Department was working 24/7 contacting and talking, and in some cases, walking Americans into the airport. Again, more than 5,500 Americans were airlifted out. And for those who remain, we will make arrangements to get them out if they so choose. As for the Afghans, we and our partners have airlifted 100,000 of them. No country in history has done more to airlift out the residents of another country than we have done. We will continue to work to help more people leave the country who are at risk. And we’re far from done. For now, I urge all Americans to join me in grateful prayer for our troops and diplomats and intelligence officers who carried out this mission of mercy in Kabul and at tremendous risk with such unparalleled results: an airma- — an airlift that evacuated tens of thousands to a network of volunteers and veterans who helped identifies those needing evacuation, guide them to the airport, and provided them for their support along the way. We’re going to continue to need their help. We need your help. And I’m looking forward to meeting with you. And to everyone who is now offering or who will offer to welcome Afghan allies to their homes around the world, including in America: We thank you. I take responsibility for the decision. Now, some say we should have started mass evacuations sooner and “Couldn’t this have be done — have been done in a more orderly manner?” I respectfully disagree. Imagine if we had begun evacuations in June or July, bringing in thousands of American troops and evacuating more than 120,000 people in the middle of a civil war. There still would have been a rush to the airport, a breakdown in confidence and control of the government, and it still would have been a very difficult and dangerous mission. The bottom line is: There is no evacuatio- — evacuation from the end of a war that you can run without the kinds of complexities, challenges, and threats we faced. None. There are those who would say we should have stayed indefinitely for years on end. They ask, “Why don’t we just keep doing what we were doing? Why did we have to change anything?” The fact is: Everything had changed. My predecessor had made a deal with the Taliban. When I came into office, we faced a deadline — May 1. The Taliban onslaught was coming. We faced one of two choices: Follow the agreement of the previous administration and extend it to have — or extend to more time for people to get out; or send in thousands of more troops and escalate the war. To those asking for a third decade of war in Afghanistan, I ask: What is the vital national interest? In my view, we only have one: to make sure Afghanistan can never be used again to launch an attack on our homeland. Remember why we went to Afghanistan in the first place? Because we were attacked by Osama bin Laden and al Qaeda on September 11th, 2001, and they were based in Afghanistan. We delivered justice to bin Laden on May 2nd, 2011 — over a decade ago. Al Qaeda was decimated. I respectfully suggest you ask yourself this question: If we had been attacked on September 11, 2001, from Yemen instead of Afghanistan, would we have ever gone to war in Afghanistan — even though the Taliban controlled Afghanistan in 2001? I believe the honest answer is “no.” That’s because we had no vital national interest in Afghanistan other than to prevent an attack on America’s homeland and their fr- — our friends. And that’s true today. We succeeded in what we set out to do in Afghanistan over a decade ago. Then we stayed for another decade. It was time to end this war. This is a new world. The terror threat has metastasized across the world, well beyond Afghanistan. We face threats from al-Shabaab in Somalia; al Qaeda affiliates in Syria and the Arabian Peninsula; and ISIS attempting to create a caliphate in Syria and Iraq, and establishing affiliates across Africa and Asia. The fundamental obligation of a President, in my opinion, is to defend and protect America — not against threats of 2001, but against the threats of 2021 and tomorrow. That is the guiding principle behind my decisions about Afghanistan. I simply do not believe that the safety and security of America is enhanced by continuing to deploy thousands of American troops and spending billions of dollars a year in Afghanistan. But I also know that the threat from terrorism continues in its pernicious and evil nature. But it’s changed, expanded to other countries. Our strategy has to change too. We will maintain the fight against terrorism in Afghanistan and other countries. We just don’t need to fight a ground war to do it. We have what’s called over-the-horizon capabilities, which means we can strike terrorists and targets without American boots on the ground — or very few, if needed. We’ve shown that capacity just in the last week. We struck ISIS-K remotely, days after they murdered 13 of our servicemembers and dozens of innocent Afghans. And to ISIS-K: We are not done with you yet. As Commander-in-Chief, I firmly believe the best path to guard our safety and our security lies in a tough, unforgiving, targeted, precise strategy that goes after terror where it is today, not where it was two decades ago. That’s what’s in our national interest. And here’s a critical thing to understand: The world is changing. We’re engaged in a serious competition with China. We’re dealing with the challenges on multiple fronts with Russia. We’re confronted with cyberattacks and nuclear proliferation. We have to shore up America’s competitive to meet these new challenges in the competition for the 21st century. And we can do both: fight terrorism and take on new threats that are here now and will continue to be here in the future. And there’s nothing China or Russia would rather have, would want more in this competition than the United States to be bogged down another decade in Afghanistan. As we turn the page on the foreign policy that has guided our nat- — our nation the last two decades, we’ve got to learn from our mistakes. To me, there are two that are paramount. First, we must set missions with clear, achievable goals — not ones we’ll never reach. And second, we must stay clearly focused on the fundamental national security interest of the United States of America. This decision about Afghanistan is not just about Afghanistan. It’s about ending an era of major military operations to remake other countries. We saw a mission of counterterrorism in Afghanistan — getting the terrorists and stopping attacks — morph into a counterinsurgency, nation building — trying to create a democratic, cohesive, and unified Afghanistan -– something that has never been done over the many centuries of Afghans’ history. Moving on from that mindset and those kind of large-scale troop deployments will make us stronger and more effective and safer at home. And for anyone who gets the wrong idea, let me say it clearly. To those who wish America harm, to those that engage in terrorism against us and our allies, know this: The United States will never rest. We will not forgive. We will not forget. We will hunt you down to the ends of the Earth, and we will — you will pay the ultimate price. And let me be clear: We will continue to support the Afghan people through diplomacy, international influence, and humanitarian aid. We’ll continue to push for regional diplomacy and engagement to prevent violence and instability. We’ll continue to speak out for basic rights of the Afghan people, especially women and girls, as we speak out for women and girls all around the globe. And I’ve been clear that human rights will be the center of our foreign policy. But the way to do that is not through endless military deployments, but through diplomacy, economic tools, and rallying the rest of the world for support. My fellow Americans, the war in Afghanistan is now over. I’m the fourth President who has faced the issue of whether and when to end this war. When I was running for President, I made a commitment to the American people that I would end this war. And today, I’ve honored that commitment. It was time to be honest with the American people again. We no longer had a clear purpose in an open-ended mission in Afghanistan. After 20 years of war in Afghanistan, I refused to send another generation of America’s sons and daughters to fight a war that should have ended long ago. After more than $2 trillion spent in Afghanistan — a cost that researchers at Brown University estimated would be over $300 million a day for 20 years in Afghanistan — for two decades — yes, the American people should hear this: $300 million a day for two decades. If you take the number of $1 trillion, as many say, that’s still $150 million a day for two decades. And what have we lost as a consequence in terms of opportunities? I refused to continue in a war that was no longer in the service of the vital national interest of our people. And most of all, after 800,000 Americans serving in Afghanistan — I’ve traveled that whole country — brave and honorable service; after 20,744 American servicemen and women injured, and the loss of 2,461 American personnel, including 13 lives lost just this week, I refused to open another decade of warfare in Afghanistan. We’ve been a nation too long at war. If you’re 20 years old today, you have never known an America at peace. So, when I hear that we could’ve, should’ve continued the so-called low-grade effort in Afghanistan, at low risk to our service members, at low cost, I don’t think enough people understand how much we have asked of the 1 percent of this country who put that uniform on, who are willing to put their lives on the line in defense of our nation. Maybe it’s because my deceased son, Beau, served in Iraq for a full year, before that. Well, maybe it’s because of what I’ve seen over the years as senator, vice president, and president traveling these countries. A lot of our veterans and their families have gone through hell — deployment after deployment, months and years away from their families; missed birthdays, anniversaries; empty chairs at holidays; financial struggles; divorces; loss of limbs; traumatic brain injury; posttraumatic stress. We see it in the struggles many have when they come home. We see it in the strain on their families and caregivers. We see it in the strain of their families when they’re not there. We see it in the grief borne by their survivors. The cost of war they will carry with them their whole lives. Most tragically, we see it in the shocking and stunning statistic that should give pause to anyone who thinks war can ever be low-grade, low-risk, or low-cost: 18 veterans, on average, who die by suicide every single day in America — not in a far-off place, but right here in America. There’s nothing low-grade or low-risk or low-cost about any war. It’s time to end the war in Afghanistan. As we close 20 years of war and strife and pain and sacrifice, it’s time to look to the future, not the past — to a future that’s safer, to a future that’s more secure, to a future that honors those who served and all those who gave what President Lincoln called their “last full measure of devotion.” I give you my word: With all of my heart, I believe this is the right decision, a wise decision, and the best decision for America. Thank you. Thank you. And may God bless you all. And may God protect our troops. 3:54 P.M. EDT
Been a tough day. This evening in Kabul, as you all know, terrorists attacked — that we’ve been talking about and worried about, that the intelligence community has assessed has undertaken — an attack — by a group known as ISIS-K — took the lives of American service members standing guard at the airport, and wounded several others seriously. They also wounded a number of civilians, and civilians were killed as well. I’ve been engaged all day and in constant contact with the military commanders here in Washington, the Pentagon, as well as in Afghanistan and Doha. And my commanders here in Washington and in the field have been on this with great detail, and you’ve had a chance to speak to some, so far. The situation on the ground is still evolving, and I’m constantly being updated. These American service members who gave their lives — it’s an overused word, but it’s totally appropriate — they were heroes. Heroes who have been engaged in a dangerous, selfless mission to save the lives of others. They were part of an airlift, an evacuation effort unlike any seen in history, with more than 100,000 American citizens, American partners, Afghans who helped us, and others taken to safety in the last 11 days. Just in the last 12 hours or so, another 7,000 have gotten out. They were part of the bravest, most capable, and the most selfless military on the face of the Earth. And they were part of, simply, what I call the “backbone of America.” They’re the spine of America, the best the country has to offer. Jill and I — our hearts ache, like I’m sure all of you do as well, for all those Afghan families who have lost loved ones, including small children, or been wounded in this vicious attack. And we’re outraged as well as heartbroken. Being the father of an Army major who served for a year in Iraq and, before that, was in Kosovo as a U.S. attorney for the better part of six months in the middle of a war — when he came home after a year in Iraq, he was diagnosed, like many, many coming home, with an aggressive and lethal cancer of the brain — who we lost. We have some sense, like many of you do, what the families of these brave heroes are feeling today. You get this feeling like you’re being sucked into a black hole in the middle of your chest; there’s no way out. My heart aches for you. But I know this: We have a continuing obligation, a sacred obligation to all of you — the families of those heroes. That obligation is not temporary; it lasts forever. The lives we lost today were lives given in the service of liberty, the service of security, in the service of others, in the service of America. Like their fellow brothers and sisters in arms who died defending our vision and our values in the struggle against terrorism of — the fallen this day, they’re part of a great and noble company of American heroes. To those who carried out this attack, as well as anyone who wishes America harm, know this: We will not forgive. We will not forget. We will hunt you down and make you pay. I will defend our interests and our people with every measure at my command. Over the past few weeks — I know you’re — many of you are probably tired of hearing me say it — we’ve been made aware by our intelligence community that the ISIS-K — an arch-enemy of the Taliban; people who were freed when both those prisons were opened — has been planning a complex set of attacks on the United States personnel and others. This is why, from the outset, I’ve repeatedly said this mission was extraordinarily dangerous and why I have been so determined to limit the duration of this mission. And as General McKenzie said, this is why our mission was designed — this is the way it was designed to operate: operate under severe stress and attack. We’ve known that from the beginning. And as I’ve been in constant contact with our senior military leaders — and I mean constant, around the clock — and our commanders on the ground and throughout the day, they made it clear that we can and we must complete this mission, and we will. And that’s what I’ve ordered them to do. We will not be deterred by terrorists. We will not let them stop our mission. We will continue the evacuation. I’ve also ordered my commanders to develop operational plans to strike ISIS-K assets, leadership, and facilities. We will respond with force and precision at our time, at the place we choose, and the moment of our choosing. Here is what you need to know: These ISIS terrorists will not win. We will rescue the Americans who are there. We will get out our Afghan allies out, and our mission will go on. America will not be intimidated. I have the utmost confidence in our brave service members who continue to execute this mission with courage and honor to save lives and get Americans, our partners, our Afghan allies out of Afghanistan. Every day when I talk to our commanders, I ask them what they need — what more do they need, if anything, to get the job done. As they will tell you, I granted every request. I reiterated to them again today, on three occasions, that they should take the maximum steps necessary to protect our forces on the ground in Kabul. And I also want to thank the Secretary of Defense and the military leadership at the Pentagon, and all the commanders in the field. There has been complete unanimity from every commander on the objectives of this mission and the best way to achieve those objectives. Those who have served through the ages have drawn inspiration from the Book of Isaiah, when the Lord says, “Whom shall I send…who shall go for us?” And the American military has been answering for a long time: “Here am I, Lord. Send me.” “Here I am. Send me.” Each one of these women and men of our armed forces are the heirs of that tradition of sacrifice of volunteering to go into harm’s way, to risk everything — not for glory, not for profit, but to defend what we love and the people we love. And I ask that you join me now in a moment of silence for all those in uniform and out uniform — military and civilian, who have given the last full measure of devotion. Thank you. May God bless you all. And may God protect those troops and all those standing watch for America. We have so much to do. It’s within our capacity to do it. We just have to remain steadfast. Steadfast. We will complete our mission. And we will continue, after our troops have withdrawn, to find means by which we defined any American who wishes to get out of Afghanistan. We will find them and we will get them out. Ladies and gentlemen, they gave me a list here. The first person I was instructed to call on was Kelly O’Donnell of NBC. I’ve instructed the military, whatever they need — if they need additional force — I will grant it. But the military — from the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs, the Joint Chiefs, the commanders in the field — have all contacted me one way or another, usually by letter, saying they subscribe to the mission as designed to get as many people out as we can within the timeframe that is allotted. That is the best way, they believe, to get as many Americans out as possible, and others. And with regard to finding, tracking down the ISIS leaders who ordered this, we have some reason to believe we know who they are — not certain — and we will find ways of our choosing, without large military operations, to get them. No, I don’t. Look, I think General McKenzie handled this question very well. The fact is that we’re in a situation — we inherited a situation, particularly since, as we all know, that the Afghan military collapsed 11 days before — in 11 days — that it is in the interest of, as Mackenzie said, in the interest of the Taliban that, in fact, ISIS-K does not metastasize beyond what it is, number one. And number two, it’s in their interest that we are able to leave on time, on target. As a consequence of that, the major things we’ve asked them — moving back the perimeter; give me more space between the wall; stopping vehicles from coming through, et cetera; searching people coming through — it is not what you’d call a tightly commanded, regimented operation like the U.S. is — the military is — but they’re acting in their interest — their interest. And so, by and large — and I’ve asked this same question to military on the ground, whether or not it’s a useful exercise. No one trusts them; we’re just counting on their self-interest to continue to generate their activities. And it’s in their self-interest that we leave when we said and that we get as many people out as we can. And like I said, even in the midst of everything that happened today, over 7,000 people have gotten out; over 5,000 Americans overall. So, it’s not a matter of trust, it’s a matter of mutual self-interest. And — but there is no evidence thus far that I’ve been given, as a consequence by any of our commanders in the field, that there has been collusion between the Taliban and ISIS in carrying out what happened today both in front of the hotel and what is expected to continue for — beyond today. Aamer, Associated Press. What we say we’re going to do and the context in which we say we’re going to do it, that we do it — unless something exceptional changes. There are additional American citizens, there are additional green card holders, there are additional personnel of our allies, there are additional SIV card holders, there are additional Afghans that have helped us, and there are additional groups of individuals that have contacted us from women’s groups, to NGOs, and others, who have expressly indicated they want to get out and have gathered in certain circumstances in groups, on buses and other means, that still presents the opportunity for the next several days, between now and the 31st, to be able to get them out. And our military — and, I believe, to the extent that we can do that knowing the threat, knowing that we may very well have another attack — the military has concluded that’s what we should do. I think they’re right. I think they’re correct. And after that, we’re going to be in a circumstance where there are — will be, I believe, numerous opportunities to continue to provide access for additional persons to get out of Afghanistan, either through means that we provide and/or are provided through cooperation with the Taliban. They’re not good guys, the Taliban. I’m not suggesting that at all. But they have a keen interest. As many of you have been reporting, they very much would like to figure out how to keep the airport open. They don’t have the capacity to do it. They very much are trying to figure out whether or not they can maintain what is the portion of an economy that has become not robust, but fundamentally different than it had been. And so there’s a lot of reasons why they have reached out not just to us, but to others, as to why it would be continued in their interest to get more of the personnel we want to get out. We can locate them. Now, there’s not many left that we can assess that are — want to come out. There’s some Americans we’ve identified — we’ve contacted the vast majority of them, if not all of them — who don’t want to leave because they have sig- — they’re dual nationals, they have extended families, et cetera. And there’s others who are looking for the time. So, that’s why we continue. I’ll take a few more questions, and — but, you, sir. we’re going to continue to try to get you out. It matters. Look, I know of no conflict, as a student of history — no conflict where, when a war was ending, one side was able to guarantee that everyone that wanted to be extracted from that country would get out. And think about it, folks. I think it’s important for — I know the American people get this in their gut. There are, I would argue, millions of Afghani citizens who are not Taliban; who did not actively cooperate with us as SIVs; who, if given a chance, they’d be onboard a plane tomorrow. It sounds ridiculous, but the vast majority of people in communities like that want to come to America, given a choice. So, getting every single person out is — can’t be guaranteed to anybody because there’s a determination, all who wants to get out as well. At any rate, it’s a process. I was really pointing to you, but — you, sir. Here’s what I’ve done on the — ask this — I’ll answer the last question, first. On the tactical questions of how to conduct an evacuation or a war, I gather up all the major military personnel that are in Afghanistan — the commanders, as well as the Pentagon. And I ask for their best military judgment: what would be the most efficient way to accomplish the mission. They concluded — the military — that Bagram was not much value added, that it was much wiser to focus on Kabul. And so, I followed that recommendation. With regard to — there are certain circumstances where we’ve gotten information — and quite frankly, sometimes from some of you — saying, “You know of such and such a group of people who are trying to get out and they’re on a bus, they’re moving…” — from other people — “and this is their location.” And there have been occasions when our military has contacted their military counterparts in the Taliban and said, “This…” — for example, “This bus is coming through with X number of people on it, made up of the following group of people. We want you to let that bus or that group through.” So, yes, there have been occasions like that. And to the best of my knowledge, in those cases, the bulk of that has occurred — they’ve been let through. But I can’t tell you with any certitude that there’s actually been a list of names. I don’t — there may have been, but I know of no circumstance. It doesn’t mean it’s not — it didn’t exist, that, “Here’s the names of 12 people; they’re coming. Let them through.” It could very well have happened. I’ll take one more question. I bear responsibility for, fundamentally, all that’s happened of late. But here’s the deal: You know — I wish you’d one day say these things — you know as well as I do that the former President made a deal with the Taliban that he would get all American forces out of Afghanistan by May 1. In return, the commitment was made — and that was a year before — in return, he was given a commitment that the Taliban would continue to attack others, but would not attack any American forces. Remember that? I’m being serious. I think they have an issue that people are likely to get hurt — some, as we’ve seen, have gotten killed — and that it is messy. The reason why — whether my friend will acknowledge it and was — reported it — the reason why there were no attacks on Americans, as you said, from the date until I came into office, was because the commitment was made by President Trump: “I will be out by May 1st. In the meantime, you agree not to attack any Americans.” That was the deal. That’s why no American was attacked. Yes, I do. Because look at it this way, folks — and I’m going to — I have another meeting, for real. But imagine where we’d be if I had indicated, on May the 1st, I was not going to renegotiate an evacuation date; we were going to stay there. I’d have only one alternative: Pour thousands of more troops back into Afghanistan to fight a war that we had already won, relative — is why the reason we went in the first place. I have never been of the view that we should be sacrificing American lives to try to establish a democratic government in Afghanistan — a country that has never once in its entire history been a united country, and is made up — and I don’t mean this in a derogatory — made up of different tribes who have never, ever, ever gotten along with one another. And so, as I said before — and this is the last comment I’ll make, but we’ll have more chance to talk about this, unfortunately, beyond, because we’re not out yet — if Osama bin Laden, as well as al Qaeda, had chosen to launch an attack — when they left Saudi Arabia — out of Yemen, would we have ever gone to Afghanistan? Even though the Taliban completely controlled Afghanistan at the time, would we have ever gone? I know it’s not fair to ask you questions. It’s rhetorical. But raise your hand if you think we should have gone and given up thousands of lives and tens of thousands of wounded. Our interest in going was to prevent al Qaeda from reemerging — first to get bin Laden, wipe out al Qaeda in Afghanistan, and prevent that from happening again. As I’ve said 100 times: Terrorism has metastasized around the world; we have greater threats coming out of other countries a heck of a lot closer to the United States. We don’t have military encampments there; we don’t keep people there. We have over-the-horizon capability to keep them from going after us. Ladies and gentlemen, it was time to end a 20-year war. Thank you so much.
Hello, folks. Before I update you on the meeting that I had with leaders of the G7 earlier today, I want to say a word about the progress we’re making on the Build Back Better agenda here at home I just got off the telephone with the leaders in the House. Today, the House of Representatives has taken a significant step toward making a historic investment that’s going to transform America, cut taxes for working families, and position the American economy for long-term — long-term growth. When I became President, it was clear that we had to confront an immediate economic crisis — the most significant recession we’ve had since the Depression, or at least since Johnson. But we — but we weren’t going to — but that wasn’t going to be enough. We also had to make some long-term investments in Americans and America itself. The first thing we did was to write and pass the American Rescue Plan, and it’s working. Our economy has added 4 million jobs in my first six months in office. Economic growth is up to the fastest it’s been — the fastest rate in 40 years. And unemployment is coming down. Right now, our economic growth is leading the world’s advanced economies. But to win the future, we need to take the next step. And today, the House of Representatives did just that. Today’s vote in the House allowed them to consider my Build Back Better agenda, a broad framework to make housing more affordable; bring down the cost of prescription drugs by giving Medicare the power to negotiate lower prices for drugs; make elder care more affordable; provide two years of free, universal, high-quality pre-K and two years of free community college; provide clean energy tax credits; continue to give the middle-class families the well-deserved tax cut for daycare and healthcare that they deserve, allowing a lot of women to get back to work, primarily; and provide significant monthly tax cuts for working families with children through the Child Care Tax Credit. These investments are going to lower out-of-pocket expenses for families and not just give them a little more breathing room. In addition, we’re going to make long-overdue, much-needed investments in basic, hard infrastructure of this nation. There — this is an area where we have broad, bipartisan agreement to invest in our antiquated roads, highways, bridges, transit, drinking water systems, broadband, clean energy, environmental clean-up, and making our infrastructure more resilient to climate — to the climate crisis, and so much more. And this is all paid for — instead of giving every break in the world to corporations and CEOs. By the — by the way, 55 of our largest companies in America paid zero dollars in federal taxes on more than $40 billion in profit last year. We can ask corporations and the very wealthy just to pay their fair share. They can still be very wealthy. They can still make a lot of money, but just begin to pay their fair share so we can invest in making our country stronger and more competitive, create jobs and raise wages, and lift up the standard of living for everyone. The bottom line is, in my view, we’re a step closer to truly investing in the American people, positioning our economy for long-term growth, and building an America that out-competes the rest of the world. My goal is to build an economy from the bottom up and the middle out, not just the top down. And that’s what we’re on our way of doing. Look, I want to thank Speaker Pelosi, who was masterful in her leadership on this, and Leader Hoyer, and Whip Clyburn, and Chairman DeFazio — the entire House leadership team — for the hard work, dedication, and determination to bring people together so we can make a difference in people’s lives. I also want to thank every Democrat in the House who worked so hard over the past few weeks to reach an agreement and who supported the process for House consideration of the Jobs and Infrastructure Plan — the Build Back Better effort. There were differences; strong points of view. They’re always welcome. What is important is that we came together to advance our agenda, and I thank everyone who did that. I thank everyone. Everyone who did it was there. Look, I also want to thank everyone who voted to support the John Lewis Voting Rights Act. You know, advancing — it’s an act to restore and expand voting protections, to prevent voter suppression, and to secure the most sacred of American rights: the right to vote freely, the right to vote fairly, and the right to have your vote counted. The House has acted. The Senate also has to join them to send this important bill to my desk. And the Senate must also move on the People s Act, critical legislation to protect our democracy and the right to vote. We need both of those — those election bills. But let me now turn to Afghanistan. I’ve met this morning with my counterparts in the G7, as well as heads of the United Nations, NATO, and the European Union. I expressed my thanks for the solidarity we have seen as we’ve stood up an unprecedented global effort. I updated our partners on the significant progress we’ve made in the past 10 days. As of this afternoon, we’ve helped evacuate 70,700 people, just since August the 14th; 75,900 people since the end of July. Just in the past 12 hours, another 19 U.S. military flights, 18 C-17s, and one C-130 carrying approximately 6,400 evacuees and 31 coalition flights carrying 5,600 people have left Kabul — just in the last 12 hours. A total of 50 more flights, 12,000 more people since we updated you this morning. These numbers are a testament to the efforts of our brave service women and men, to our diplomats on the ground in Kabul, and to our Allies still standing with us. And we had a productive discussion, and there was strong agreement among the leaders about — both about the evacuation mission underway, as well as the need to coordinate our approach to the Afghan — to Afghanistan as we move forward. First, on evacuation, we agreed that we will continue to close — our close cooperation to get people out as efficiently and safely as possible. We are currently on a pace to finish by August the 31st. The sooner we can finish, the better. Each day of operations brings added risk to our troops. But the completion by August 31st depends upon the Taliban continuing to cooperate and allow access to the airport for those who were transport- — we’re transporting out and no disruptions to our operations. In addition, I’ve asked the Pentagon and the State Department for contingency plans to adjust the timetable should that become necessary. I’m determined to ensure that we complete our mission — this mission. I’m also mindful of the increasing risks that I’ve been — I’ve been briefed on and the need to factor those risks in. There are real and significant challenges that we also have to take into consideration. The longer we stay, starting with the acute and growing risk of an attack by a terrorist group known as ISIS-K, an ISIS affiliate in Afghanistan — which is the sworn enemy of the Taliban as well — every day we’re on the ground is another day we know that ISIS-K is seeking to target the airport and attack both U.S. and Allied forces and innocent civilians. Additionally, thus far, the Taliban have been taking steps to work with us so we can get our people out, but it’s a tenuous situation. We already had some gun fighting break out. We run a serious risk of it breaking down as time goes on. Second, the G7 leaders, and the leaders of the EU, NATO, and the U.N., all agreed that we will stand united in our approach to the Taliban. We agreed the legitimacy of any future government depends on the approach it now takes to uphold their international obligations, including to prevent Afghanistan from being used as a base for terrorism. And we agreed that none of us are going to take the Taliban’s word for it. We will judge them by their actions. And we will stay in close coordination on any steps that we take moving forward in response to the Taliban’s behavior. At the same time, we renewed our humanitarian commitment to the Afghan people and supported a proposal by the Secretary-General Guterres of the United Nations-led international response with unfettered humanitarian access in Afghanistan. Third, we talked about our mutual obligation to support refugees and evacuees currently fleeing Afghanistan. The United States will be a leader in these efforts and will look to the international community and to our partners to do the same. We’re already seeing our Allies’ commitment. They’re bringing their — they’re bringing to their countries the Afghans who served alongside their forces as translators or in their embassies, just as we’re bringing to the United States those Afghans who worked alongside our forces and diplomats. We’re continuing that effort. We’re conducting thorough security screening in the intermediate stops they’re making for anyone who is not a U.S. citizen or a lawful permanent resident of the United States. Anyone arriving in the United States will have undergone a background check. And — and we must all work together to resettle thousands of Afghans who ultimately qualify for refugee status. The United States will do our part. And we are already working closely with refugee organizations to rebuild a system that was purposefully destroyed by my predecessor. Finally, we agreed to stay vigilant against terrorist threats that have metastasized around the world. We went to Afghanistan with our Allies in 2001 for clear reasons: One, to get the people who attacked us on 9/11 and to get Osama bin Laden, and to make sure that Afghanistan was not used again as a base from which to attack the United States or our Allies. We achieved that objective. We delivered justice to bin Laden more than a decade ago. But the current environment looks very different than it did in 2001, and we have to meet the challenges we face today. We run effective counterterrorism operations around the world where we know terrorism is more of a threat than it is today in Afghanistan, without any permanent military presence on the ground. And we can and will do the same thing in Afghanistan with our over-the-horizon counterterrorism capability. Cooperation with our closest partners on our enduring counterterrorism mission will continue to be an essential piece of our strategy. In short, we all — all of us agreed today that we’re going to stand shoulder-to-shoulder with our closest partners to meet the current challenges we face in Afghanistan, just as we have for the past 20 years. We’re acting in consultation and cooperation with our closest friends and fellow democracies. And I want to again thank all of our Allies and partners around the world who have rallied in support of our shared mission. We ended the conversation today by a clear — a statement on all of our parts. We are going to stay united, locked at the hip, in terms of what we have to do. We’ll get that done. And tomorrow, I’ve asked Secretary Blinken to give you an update and a detailed report on exactly how many Americans are still in Afghanistan and how many we got out and what our projection is. So, thank you again. May God bless you. And may God protect our diplomats and all those in harm’s way. Thank you. 5:15 P.M. EDT
Good afternoon. After a series of meetings throughout the weekend with my national security team, I want to update the American people on our ongoing evacuation operation in Afghanistan. But first, I just was briefed by the FEMA Administrator, who is here with me today — Ms. Criswell — about the flash flooding in Waverly, Tennessee, and surrounding areas in Tennessee. I want to begin by expressing my deepest condolences for the sudden and tragic loss of life due to this flash flood. I know we’ve reached out to the community and we stand ready to offer them support. I’ve asked the Administrator to speak to Governor Lee of Tennessee right away, and we will offer any assistance they need for this terrible moment. Let me also say a few words about what is — what is now Tropical Storm — not hurricane — Henri, which made landfall at approximately 12:15 this afternoon in Rhode Island. Henri is impacting much of the Northeast right now, and I want to talk about our efforts to prepare and respond to this storm. We have been closely monitoring Henri’s progress and making the necessary preparations. Fortunately, it’s no longer a hurricane; it’s been downgraded to a tropical storm. And we are taking it seriously, though, because of the size and the storm’s surge and the rainfall it’s producing. It’s also — it’s also impacting an area of the country that has already experienced heavy rainfall over the past several days. And while New Englanders are used to dealing with some tough weather, this storm has the potential for widespread consequences across the region, with significant flooding and power outages that could affect hundreds of thousands of people. And so, we’re doing everything we can now to help these states prepare, respond, and recover. I can’t think of anyone better to lead this operation than — than Deanne Criswell of the — of FEMA. She’s — before she headed up FEMA, she led the emergency response in New York City, and she was one of the key federal officials leading our response to Superstorm — Superstorm Sandy. She knows this area very, very well and knows what is needed better than anyone. Yesterday, I talked with the Administrator and each of the governors in the key states most likely to be affected. I urged them to take advantage of the assistance FEMA can offer in advance and committed to doing everything we can to support their communities through the storm and afterwards. FEMA has already pre-positioned resources in the region to speed our ability to respond, including food, water, and lifesaving communications equipment, as well as generators. In close cooperation with the electrical sector, preparations are in place to address significant power outages. And resources and support is staged at the edge of this storm to be able to move quickly in to help. Thousands of additional line crews and vegetation-clearing crews from other states and from Canada are already heading toward the impacted states in New England, ready to serve as — move in as soon as it’s feasible. They’ll clean up fallen trees, help local utilities repair damaged lines, and restore electrical service as fast as possible. I want to thank these crews for their commitment to helping their fellow citizens in time of need. I’ve already approved — I’ve already approved emergency declarations for Rhode Island, Connecticut, and New York, which activates funds and means we can — we can get in there and help as soon as this extreme weather has moved through. We don’t know the full extent of the storm’s impact today, but we are acting to prepare for and prevent damage as much as possible, and to speed help to affected communities so they can recover as quickly as possible. I also want to encourage everyone to do their part to prepare. Follow the guidance from their local authorities. Some places have already had heavy rains and winds and dangerous storm surges. Henri is going to continue to move across much of the Northeast, so it is important to monitor it closely and be prepared in your home and your community. Make sure you have the supplies for your entire household, including necessary medications and food, water, battery-powered radios in case of extended power hour outera — power outages. And don’t forget that you may need to seek shelter while you’re battling the Delta vir- — variant and the COVID-19. So, wear a mask and try to observe social distancing. And to everyone across the country, don’t get caught by the next storm. Get vaccinated. Get vaccinated now. Protect yourself and your family against COVID-19. It’s going to be a vital part of emergency preparedness this year — for the remainder of this year. Now, let me turn to Afghanistan. I’ve continued to make progress since I spoke to you on Friday. We have moved thousands of people each day by U.S. military aircraft and civilian charter flights. A little over 30 hours — in a little over 30 hours this weekend, we’ve evacuated an extraordinary number of people, as I will detail in a minute: about 11,000 individuals. That number will change day to day as the air and ground operations in Kabul vary. Our first priority in Kabul is getting American citizens out of the country as quickly and as safely as possible. At my direction, the State Department continues to reach out to the remaining Americans we have identified by phone, e-mail, and other means to ascertain their whereabouts and their plans. We’re executing a plan to move groups of these Americans to safety and to safely and effectively move them to the airport compound. For security reasons, I’m not going to go into the detail of what these plans entail, but I will say again today that I have said before: Any American who wants to get home will get home. We’ve also been evacuating the citizens of our NATO Allies and our partners, including their diplomats, their embassy staff who remain in Afghanistan and to get them back to their homes as well. And as we do this, we’re also working to move our Afghan allies, who stood with us side by side, and other vulnerable Afghans such as women leaders and journalists, out of the country. As of this morning, we have evacuated nearly 28,000 people since August the 14th, on both U.S. and coalition aircraft, including civilian charters, bringing the total number of people we have evacuated since July to approximately 33,000 persons. In one 24-hour period this weekend, 23 U.S. military flights — including 14 C-17s, 9 C-130 flights — left Kabul carrying 3,900 passengers. We see no reason why this tempo will not be kept up. During the same period, our military facilitated another 35 charter flights carrying an additional nearly 4,000 evacuees to other countries that are taking — that are taking them out. Altogether, we lifted approximately 11,000 people out of Kabul in less than 36 hours. It’s an incredible operation. Let me be clear: The evacuation of thousands of people from Kabul is going to be hard and painful no matter when it started and when we began. It would have been true if we had started a month ago or a month from now. There is no way to evacuate this many people without pain and loss, of heartbreaking images you see on television. It’s just a fact. My heart aches for those people you see. We are proving that we can move, though, thousands of people a day out of Kabul. We’re bringing our citizens, NATO Allies, Afghanis who had helped — in fact, has helped us in the war effort. But we have a long way to go, and a lot could still go wrong. But to move out 30,000 people in just over a week, that’s a great testament to the men and women on the ground in Kabul and our armed services. It also reflects a tireless diplomatic effort. In order to keep a steady flow of planes taking off from Kabul and maximize our evacuation capacity, we have quickly stood up an unprecedented global effort and established a series of processing stations in third countries. In short, we’re not flying them directly to their country, we’re flying to these processing stations where we’re working with more than two dozen countries across four continents. I’ve secured agreements — we’ve secured agreements with the Gulf, Ce- — excuse me — across the Gulf, in Central Asia, and in Europe, including processing centers in Qatar, Germany, Kuwait, Spain, and elsewhere that allows us to sort and process these evacuees. This transit — these transit centers provide a safe place for the SIV applicants and other vulnerable Afghanis and their families to complete their paperwork while we conduct security screenings and background checks before they continue on to their final destination in the United States or in another country — one of our NATO Allies, as well. And so, from Asia to Africa, from Europe to Western — to the Western Hemisphere, nations are making generous offers to support resettlements efforts. And I’ve been in personal contact with the leaders of many countries, including Qatar, Germany, Spain, Italy, the UAE, and others — they’re making vital contributions — to thank them for their support and to discuss how we can continue to coordinate our efforts in Afghanistan, moving forward. It’s the reason why I continue in contact with them. And I want to, again, thank all of our partners for their continued — continuing to stand together. We’ve also activated the first stage of what’s referred to as the “Civil Reserve Air Fleet” to help with the onward movement of evacuees from these transit centers. Our military aircraft and others will get them to these centers, but then we’re going to get the Civil Reserve Fleet — it’s a program that’s designed — that was designed in the wake of the Berlin Airlift after World War Two — to use commercial aircraft to augment our airlift capacity. This is a voluntary program for our commercial airlines, and we’re grateful for those airlines and the U.S. carriers who are supporting this. This effort will only use three or four planes from each of the major carriers’ vast fleet of aircraft, so there should be no effect, or a minimal effect, on commercial air travel. And we’ll stay in close coordination with our partners to mitigate any impact. These Civil Reserve flights will be helping facilitate the safe movement of people from staging locations and transit centers, like Qatar and Germany, to the United States or to a third country. None of them will be landing in Kabul. Now, the American aircraft part of this will not be going to any country but the United States. As this effort unfolds, I want to be clear about three things. One, planes taking off from Kabul are not flying directly to the United States. They’re landing at U.S. military bases and transit centers around the world. Number two, at these sites where they’re landing, we are conducting thorough scrutiny — security screenings for everyone who is not a U.S. citizen or a lawful permanent resident. Anyone arriving in the United States will have undergone a background check. Number three, once screened and cleared, we will welcome these Afghans, who helped us in the war effort over the last 20 years, to their new home in the United States of America. Because that’s who we are. That’s what America is. You know, I’ve been touched by the outpouring of support that we’ve seen from communities and organizations across America mobilizing to support these efforts. So many of these Afghans stood bravely by U.S. troops in Afghanistan. And now the United States, including veterans groups, refugee resettlement agencies, religious organizations, and so many others, are standing with our Afghan allies. It exemplifies the best of America. And I want to say, again, just how difficult this mission is and how dangerous — the dangers it poses to our troops on the ground. The security environment is changing rapidly. There are civilians crowded at the airport, although we have cleared thousands of them. We know that terrorists may seek to exploit this situation and target innocent Afghans or American troops. They’re maintaining constant vigilance to mon- — we’re maintaining the constant vigilance to monitor and disrupt threats from any source, including the likely source being ISIS — ISIS-K, the Afghan affiliate referred to as “ISIS-K.” But we are under no illusions about the threat. I said on Friday, ISIS-K is a sworn enemy of the Taliban, and they have a history of fighting one another. But every day we have troops on the ground, these troops and innocent civilians at the airport face the risk of attack from ISIS-K from a distance, even though we’re moving back the perimeter significantly. We’re working hard and as fast as we can to get people out. That’s our mission. That’s our goal. And our determination to get every American citizen home and to evacuate our Afghan allies is unwavering. We continue to see not only enor- — the enormous scope and scale of the effort, we will see the individual lives that are affected. The families that are desperate to get home to their loved ones in America. The communities of veterans who have mobilized to try and help their former interpreters get to safety. The frightened Afghans who aren’t sure what to do. To state the obvious, it’s heartbreaking. We’re all seeing it. We see it. We feel it. You can’t look at it and not feel it. Nothing about this effort is easy, but the women and men of the United States Armed Forces are acting bravely and with professionalism and with a basic human copassio- — compassion. I want to offer my profound thanks to our service members on the ground in Kabul, and to all those at U.S. bases around the world who are welcoming and caring — and caring for these evacuees. And to all the diplomats and civil servants who are working around the clock to rescue American citizens, the citizens of our Allies, our Afghan partners, vulnerable Afghans — such as women leaders and journalists — what we are doing is extraordinary, and you have to think of the — of all they’re doing. It’s thanks to the people who, from all over the world, who are helping this effort. I just want to thank you, and I’ll keep you informed every day as we move forward. May God protect our troops and our diplomats and — who are serving in harm’s way. Now I’ll take a few questions. Darlene, from the Associated Press. 
There’s discussions going on among us and the military about extending. Our hope is we will not have to extend, but there are going to be discussions, I suspect, on how far along we are in the process. Mario Parker, Bloomberg. I will tell them that we’ll see what we can do. Look, we are working closely with the G7. I’ve spoken with most of the leaders of G7. I’ll be doing a conference with them, I think, Tuesday — I’m not certain — and we’ll have that discussion. But we are — we already have helped get out diplomats from other countries. We’ve already helped get out citizens from other countries, and we’ll continue to do that. What I’m not going to do is talk about the tactical changes we’re making to make sure we maintain as much security as we can. We have constantly — how can I say it? — increased rational access to the airport, where more folk can get there more safely. It’s still a dangerous operation. But I don’t want to go into the detail of how we’re doing that. Andrew from the Wall Street Journal. Number one, I think you’re going to see they’re going to get out. Number two, we have made a number of changes, including extending the access around the airport and in the safe zone. And we’ve done a number of things, again, I don’t want to get into detail about. But the fact is that more and more of the groups we urgently want to get out of Afghanistan, starting with American citizens and the folks who worked in the embassies and personnel with our allies, as well as the Afghans who helped them and worked in those embassies, as well as those who helped them on the battlefield as well — we are working diligently to make sure we’ve increased the ability to get them out. We’ve changed the gate operations and a whole range of things. And that’s why we’ve been able to significantly increase the number of people we’re getting out. We’ve discussed a lot with the Taliban. They’ve been cooperative in extending some of the perimeter. That remains to be seen whether we ask that question. Ed, fire away. Look, I had a basic decision to make: I either withdraw America from a 20-year war that, depending on whose analyses you accept, cost us $150 million a day for 20 years or $300 million a day for 20 years; who — and I — you know I carry this card with me every day — and who — in fact, where we lost 2,448 Americans dead and 20,722 wounded. Either increase the number of forces we’d keep — we keep there and keep that going, or I end the war. And I decided to end the war. As I said the other day: You know, the only reason we were in Afghanistan is this is the place from which bin Laden attacked the United States of America. Had this been in another Middle Eastern country where he could have easily had moved from, we would have never gone to Afghanistan. So, the question is, when is the right time to leave? Where are our national interests? Where do they lie? And the idea that we are in a situation where we cannot recognize that terrorism has metastasized around the world, and the need for us to focus in other parts of the world which create an even greater danger of an al Qaeda-like operation beginning, it can’t be ignored. And we are, as you well know — because you follow this — we are in a number of places where we’re doing that without permanent basing American forces there. So, I — I think when this is over, the American people will have a clear understanding of what I did, why we did it. And — but, look, that’s the job. My job is to make judgments. My job is to make judgments no one else can or will make. I made them. I’m convinced I’m absolutely correct in not deciding to send more young women and men to war, for a war that, in fact, is no longer warranted. I don’t trust anybody, including you. I love you, but, you know, there’s not a lot of people I trust to — Look, the Taliban has a — the Taliban has to make a fundamental decision: Is the Taliban going to attempt to be able to unite and provide for the wellbeing of the people of Afghanistan, which no one group has ever done since before dealing — for hundreds of years. And if it does, it’s going to need everything from additional help, in terms of economic assistance, trades, and a whole range of things. The Taliban has said — we’ll see whether they mean it or not — they’re seeking legitimacy. They’re seeking legitimacy to determine whether or not they will be recognized by other countries. They have told other countries, as well as us, they don’t want us to move our diplomatic presence completely. But they — so, all of this is all just talk now. All just talk now. And so, so far, the Taliban has not taken action against U.S. forces. So far, they have, by and large, followed through what they said, in terms of allowing Americans to pass through, and the like. And I’m sure they don’t control all of their forces. It’s a ragtag force. And so, we’ll see. We’ll see whether or not what they say turns out to be true. But the bottom line is this, folks: Look, at the end of the day, if we didn’t leave Afghanistan now, when do we leave? Another 10 years? Another five years? Another year? I’m not about to send your son or your daughter to fight in Afghanistan. I don’t see where that is in our overwhelming interest. And to talk about how our interests are going to be impacted: Let me tell you, you’re sitting in Beijing or you’re sitting in Moscow — are you happy we left? They’d love nothing better for us to continue to be bogged down there, totally occupied with what’s going on. So, the idea this is — I think that history is going to record this was the logical, rational, and right decision to make. So, thank you all so very much. Thank you. On Friday, you mentioned “harsh conditions” if they misbehaved. The answer is “yes.” It depends on the conduct. Thanks.
Good afternoon. I’ve just met with the Vice President, Secretary Blinken, Secretary Austin, National Security Advisor Sullivan, and other members the national security leadership team in the Situation Room to discuss our ongoing efforts to evacuate American citizens, third-country civilians, Afghan allies, and vulnerable Afghans. And I want to provide the American people with a brief update and the — on the situation in Afghanistan. Since I spoke to you on Monday, we’ve made significant progress. We have secured the airport, enabling flights to resume. Not just military flights, but civilian charters and other — from other countries and the NGOs taking out civilians and vulnerable Afghan — vulnerable Afghans. And now we have almost 6,000 troops on the ground, including the 82nd Airborne providing runway security, the Army 10th Mountain Division standing guard around the airport, and the 24th Marine Expeditionary Unit assisting the civilian departure. This is one of the largest, most difficult airlifts in history. And the only country in the world capable of projecting this much power on the far side of the world with this degree of precision is the United States of America. We’ve already evacuated more than 18,000 people since July and approximately 13,000 since our military airlift began on August the 14th. Thousands more have been evacuated on private charter flights facilitated by the U.S. government. These numbers include American citizens and permanent residents, as well as their families. It includes SIV applicants and their families — those Afghans who have worked alongside us, served alongside of us, gone into combat with us, and provided invaluable assistance to us, such as translators and interpreters. The United States stands by its commitment that we’ve made to these people, and it includes other vulnerable Afghans, such as women leaders and journalists. In fact, working in close coordination with the management of the New York Times, the Washington Post, and the Wall Street Journal, we have successfully evacuated all 204 of their employees in Afghanistan on U.S. military aircraft earlier this week. We have established the flow of flights, and we’ve increased the number of people we are moving out of the country. We paused flights in Kabul a few hours this morning to make sure we could process the arriving evacuees at the transit points, but our commander in Kabul has already given the order for outbound flights to resume. Even with the pause, we moved out 5,700 evacuees yesterday, and we’re working on a variety — to verify that number of the Americans that are still in the country as we work on this because we’re not — don’t have the exact number of people who are — Americans who are there. And those who may have come home to the United States, we’re not — we want to get a strong number as to exactly how many people are there, how many American citizens, and where they are. Just yesterday, among the many Americans we evacuated, there were 169 Americans who, over the — we got over the wall into the airport using military assets. We’re also facilitating flights for our Allies and our partners, and working in close operational coordination with NATO on this evacuation. For example, we provided overwatch for the French convoy bringing hundreds of their people from the French embassy to the airport. These operations are going — are going to continue over the coming days before we complete our drawdown. We’re going to do everything — everything that we can to provide safe evacuation for our Afghan allies, partners, and Afghans who might be targeted if — because of their association with the United States. But let me be clear, any American who wants to come home, we will get you home. But make no mistake: This evacuation mission is dangerous. It involves risks to our armed forces, and it is being conducted under difficult circumstances. I cannot promise what the final outcome will be or what it will be — that it will be without risk of loss. But as Commander-in-Chief, I can assure you that I will mobilize every resource necessary. And as an American, I offer my gratitude to the brave men and women of the U.S. Armed Forces who are carrying out this mission. They’re incredible. As we continue to work the logistics of evacuation, we’re in constant contact with the Taliban, working to ensure civilians have safe passage to the airport. We’re particularly focused in our engagements on making sure every American who wants to leave can get to the airport. Where we have been — seen challenges with Americans — for Americans, we have thus far been able to resolve them. We’ve been able — we’ve made — look, we’ve made clear to the Taliban that any attack — any attack on our forces or disruption of our operations at the airport will be met with a swift and forceful response. We’re also keeping a close watch on any potential terrorist threat at or around the airport, including from the ISIS affiliates in Afghanistan who were released from prison when the prisons were emptied. And because they are, by the way — to make everybody understand — that the ISIS in Afghanistan are the — have been the sworn enemy of the Taliban. I’ve said all along: We’re going to retain a laser-focus on our counterterrorism mission, working in close coordination with our allies and our partners and all those who have an interest in ensuring stability in the region. Secretary Blinken, who is with me today, met this morning with our NATO Allies in consultation about the way forward so that Afghanistan cannot be used as a — in the future as a terrorist base of attack — to attack the United States or our Allies. For 20 years, Afghanistan has been a joint effort with our NATO Allies. We went in together and we’re leaving together, and now we’re working together to bring our people and our Afghan partners to safety. In the past few days, I’ve also spoken directly with the British Prime Minster, Mr. Johnson; Chancellor Merkel of Germany; and President Macron of France. We all agreed that we should convene and we will convene the G7 meeting next week — a group of the world’s leading democracies — so that together we can coordinate our mutual approach, our united approach on Afghanistan and moving forward. We are united with our closest partners to execute the mission at hand. We’ve also discussed the need to work with the international community to provide humanitarian assistance, such as food, aid, and medical care for refugees who have crossed into neighboring countries to escape the Taliban; and to bring international pressure on the Taliban with respect to the treatment of Afghan peo- — the Afghan people overall, but including Afghan, particularly, women and girls. The past week has been heartbreaking. We’ve seen gut-wrenching images of panicked people acting out of sheer desperation. You know, it’s completely understandable. They’re frightened. They’re sad — uncertain what happens next. I don’t think anyone — I don’t think any one of us can see those pictures and not feel that pain on a human level. Now we have a mission — a mission to complete in Afghanistan. It’s an incredibly difficult and dangerous operation for our military. We have almost 6,000 of America’s finest fighting men and women in Ka- — at the Kabul Airport. And we’re putting their lives on the line — they’re doing it — in a dangerous place to save other Americans, our Afghan allies, and citizens of our al- — our allies who went in with us. You know, I — I talk — I talk to our commanders on the ground there every single day, as I just did a few hours — an hour or so ago. And I made it clear to them that we’ll get them whatever they need to do the job. They’re performing to the highest standard under extraordinarily difficult and dynamic circumstances. Our NATO Allies are strongly standing with us — their troops keeping sentry alongside ours in Kabul. As is the case whenever I deploy our troops into harm’s way, I take that responsibility seriously. I carry that burden every day, just as I did when I was Vice President and my son was deployed to Iraq for a year. There’ll be plenty of time to criticize and second-guess when this operation is over. But now — now I’m focused on getting this job done. I would ask every American to join me in praying for the women and men risking their lives on the ground in the service of our nation. As events evolve over the coming days, my team and I will continue to share the information and update the American people on exactly where things are. We’ll use every resource necessary to carry out the mission at hand and bring to safety American citizens and our Afghan allies. This is our focus now. And when this is finished, we will complete our military withdrawal and finally bring to an end 20 years of American military action in Afghanistan. Thank you, and may God bless you, our troops, our diplomats, and all those serving in harm’s way. And now I’ll take questions. AP, Zeke Miller. Q Thank you, Mr. President. You vowed that your election would usher in an era where the world could count on America to live up to its promises. You promised to leave Afghanistan, but you also promised not to — to help — to bring out those who helped America in its war effort. We’ve seen these heart-wrenching images at the Kabul airport of people trying to get there, to say nothing of the people who can’t get to that airport. You made the commitment to get American troops out, to get the American citizens out. Will you make the same commitment to those who assisted in the American war effort over the last 20 years? Number one. And then, number two: What’s your message to America’s partners around the world who have criticized not the withdrawal, but the conduct of that withdrawal, and made — made them question America’s credibility on the world stage? I have seen no question of our credibility from our allies around the world. I have spoken with our NATO Allies. We’ve spoken with NATO Allies — the Secretary of State. Our National Security Advisor has been in contact with his counterparts throughout the world with our Allies, as has the General — or, excuse me, I keep calling him a General, but my Secretary of Defense. The fact of the matter is I have not seen that. Matter of fact, the exact opposite I’ve got — the exact opposite thing is we’re acting with dispatch, we’re acting — committing to what we said we would do. Look, let’s put this thing in perspective here. What interest do we have in Afghanistan at this point with al Qaeda gone? We went to Afghanistan for the express purpose of getting rid of al Qaeda in Afghanistan, as well as — as well as getting Osama bin Laden. And we did. Imagine — just imagine if that attack — if bin Laden had decided, with al Qaeda, to launch an attack from Yemen. Would we ever have gone to Afghanistan? Would there ever be any reason we’d be in Afghanistan — controlled by the Taliban? What is the national interest of United States in that circumstance? We went and did the mission. You’ve known my position for a long, long time. It’s time to end this war. The estimates of the cost of this war over the last 20 years ranged from a minimum of $1 trillion to a think tank at one of the universities saying $2 trillion. That’s somewhere between $150 million a day and $300 million a day. The threat from terrorism has metastasized. There’s a greater danger from ISIS and — and al Qaeda and all these affiliates in other countries, by far, than there is from Afghanistan. And we’re going to retain an over-the-horizon capability that if they were to come back — to be able to take them out, surgically move. So, this is — this is where we should be. This is about America leading the world, and all our allies have agreed with that. And, by the way, before I made this decision, I was at the G7, as well as — met with our NATO partners, and I told them all. Every one of them knew and agreed with the decision I made to an end — end — jointly end our involvement in Afghanistan. The first part of your question was — I can’t remember now. Q It is: Are — would you commit to the same commitment — would you make the same commitment to bring out Afghans who assisted in the war effort? Yes. Yes. We’re making the same commitment. There’s no one more important than bringing American citizens out. I acknowledge that. But they’re equally important, almost — is all those who — those “SIVs,” we call them, who, in fact, helped us. They were translators. They went into battle with us. They were part of the operation. As well as — we’re also trying to get out as many NGOs — non-governmental organizations — women’s organizations, et cetera. We’re doing all we can. In the meantime, Secretary Blinken and I am going to be working with our Allies to see to it that we can bring international pressure on the Taliban to be — they’re looking to gain some legitimacy. They’re going to have to figure out how they’re going to maintain that country. And there’s going to be harsh conditions we’re — strong condition we’re going to apply. And it will depend on whether they get help — based on whether or not how and well they treat women and girls, how they treat their citizens. So, this is just beginning on that score. Q And are you willing to stay passed the 31st to make that happen — to bring all the Americans out, to bring those SIVs out? I think we can get it done by then, but we’re going to make that judgment as we go. Now, Justin Sink of Bloomberg. Q Thank you, Mr. President. You just said that you would keep a laser-focus on counterterrorism efforts and that you don’t see as great of a threat of terrorism from Afghanistan as other parts of the world. But if you and your administration so badly misassessed how quickly the Taliban would sweep through Afghanistan and we no longer have an embassy there from which to run intelligence operations, how can you at all be confident of your assessment of the risk of terrorism and the ability of the U.S. to conduct over-the-horizon missions to keep it in check? Can you tell Americans that they’re safe and will remain safe from terror attacks in Afghanistan? I think you’re comparing apples and oranges. One question was whether or not the Afghan forces we trained up would stay and fight in their own civil war they had going on. No one — I shouldn’t say “no one” — the consensus was that it was highly unlikely that in 11 days they’d collapse and fall, and the leader of Afghanistan would flee the country. That’s a very different question than whether or not there is the ability to observe whether or not large groups of terrorists began to accumulate in a particular area in Afghanistan to plot against the United States of America. That’s why we retained an over-the-horizon capability to go in and do something about that if that occurs — if that occurs. But in the meantime, we know what’s happening around the world. We know what’s happening in terms of what’s going on in other countries, where there is the significant rise of terrorist organizations in the Middle East, in East Africa, and other places. And so, the bottom line is: We have to do — we’re dealing with those terrorist threats from other parts of the world in failed states without permanent military — without permanent military presence there. We have to do the same in Afghanistan. Q And, sir, just on that initial assessment: We’ve learned, over the last 24 hours, that there was a dissent cable from the State Department — Sure. Q — saying that the Taliban would come faster through Afghanistan. Can you say why, after that cable was issued, the U.S. didn’t do more to get Americans out? We’ve got all kind of cables, all kinds of advice. If you notice, it ranged from this group saying that — they didn’t say it’d fall when it would fall — when it did fall — but saying that it would fall; to others saying it wouldn’t happen for a long time and they’d be able to sustain themselves through the end of the year. I made the decision. The buck stops with me. I took the consensus opinion. The consensus opinion was that, in fact, it would not occur, if it occurred, until later in the year. So, it was my decision. Now, my — I got — my next is Stephanie Ramos, ABC. Q Thank you, Mr. President. Two questions for you. The military has secured the airport, as you mentioned, but will you sign off on sending U.S. troops into Kabul to evacuate Americans who haven’t been able to get to the airport safely? We have no indication that they haven’t been able to get — in Kabul — through the airport. We’ve made an agreement with the — with the Taliban. Thus far, they’ve allowed them to go through. It’s in their interest for them to go through. So, we know of no circumstance where American citizens are — carrying an American passport — are trying to get through to the airport. But we will do whatever needs to be done to see to it they get to the airport. Thank you. Q And one more, Mr. President. Last month, my colleague Martha Raddatz interviewed Abdul, an interpreter who was on the frontlines with U.S. forces in Afghanistan. Overnight, we received a photo of Taliban militants coming to the door of his home, literally hunting him down. Thankfully, he was able to escape, but he is obviously still in mortal danger. What would be your message to Abdul, his wife, and his three young daughters? We want you to be able to get to the airport. Contact us. We’ll see whatever we can do to get you there. We’ve got to get you out. We are committed to deal with you, your wife, and your child — to get all three of you out of Afghanistan. That’s the commitment. Q Thank you, sir. Meredith Lee of PBS NewsHour. Q Thank you, Mr. President. You mentioned just now using every resource available for evacuations. Why haven’t you ordered the military to expand the security perimeter around the Kabul airport? Do you have any plans to do so, given that it will likely require more U.S. troops? And are you considering rescue operations to recover Americans and Afghan allies stuck behind Taliban checkpoints? The last answer is yes — to the last question. We’re considering every op- — every opportunity and every means by which we can get folks to the airport. That’s number one. Number two, the reason why we have not gone out and started — and set up a perimeter way outside the airport in Kabul is that it’s likely to draw an awful lot of unintended consequences in terms of people who, in fact, are not part of the Taliban. We’ve been in constant contact with the Taliban leadership on the ground in — in Kabul, as well as the Taliban leadership at Daho , and we’ve been coordinating what we are doing. That’s why we were able — for example, how we got all of our embassy personnel out, how we got everyone out of the embassy safely that was at distance. That’s how we helped get the French out and — out of their embassy. So, the question remains — there will be judgments made on the ground by the military commanders at the moment, and that — I cannot second-guess each of those judgments to be made. But the idea of — again, let me — let me get back to the fundamental point I made at the outset. When the decision was made by me that — and it was made some time ago, when I ran for President saying I wanted to get us out of Afghanistan — one of the things that is a reality is people now say to me and to others — and so- — many of you say it on air — that: Why did we have to move? Because no Americans are being attacked. Why did we withdraw those — why did we agree to withdraw 2,500 troops? No Americans were being attacked. As I said before, the reason they weren’t being attacked was part of an agreement that Trump had made a year earlier. “We will leave by May 1st,” he said, “as long as there’s no attack on Americans in that year, period.” Number one. Number two, the Taliban was taking large swaths of the countryside, north and south — none of the major areas, none of the major points of the capitals of each of these provinces, but they were all over the — all over the country. And the idea that if I had said on May the 2nd or 3rd, “We are not leaving; we are staying” — does anybody truly believe that I would not have had to put in significantly more American forces — send your sons, your daughters — like my son was sent to Iraq — to maybe die? And for what? For what? So the only rational thing to do, in my view, was to set up and pre-position American forces for the purpose of evacuation, and the aircraft — to pre-position those ahead of time so that we would be able to begin the process of evacuation of American citizens, SIVs, and others who helped us. The last point I’ll make is this: Look, if we had decided 15 years ago to leave Afghanistan, it would have been really difficult. If we decided five years ago — if we start — if we continued the war for another decade and tried to leave, there’s no way in which you’d be able to leave Afghanistan without there being some of what you’re seeing now. But what we’ve done so far is we’ve been able to get a large number of Americans out, all our personnel at the embassy out, and so on. And, thank God, so far — knock on wood — we’re in a different position. Scott Detrow. Scott. NPR. Q Thank you, Mr. President. I just want to follow up on something you said a moment ago. You said that there’s no circumstances where American citizens cannot get to the airport. That doesn’t really square with the images we’re seeing around the airport and with the reporting on the ground from our colleagues who are describing chaos and violence. Are you saying unequivocally that any American who wants to get to the airport is getting there and getting past the security barrier and to the planes where they want to go? No, I thought the question was: How can they get through to the airport outside the airport? And the answer is: To the best of our knowledge, the Taliban checkpoints — they are letting through people showing American passports. Now, that’s a different question when they get into the rush and crowd of all the folks just outside the wall near the airport. That’s why we had to, I guess, ye- — was it yesterday or the day before? — we went over the wall and brought in — how many? MR. SULLIVAN: One hundred and sixty-nine. One hundred and sixty-nine Americans. So, it is a process to try to figure out how we — how we deal with the mad rush of non-Americans — those who didn’t help, those who are not on a priority list — just any Afghan — any Afghan to be able to get out of the country. And so my guess is that, no matter what, under what circumstances we — anyone — there’s not a whole lot of Afghanis — there’s a whole lot of Afghanis that just as soon come to America, whether there were any involvement with the United States in the past at all, rather than stay under Taliban rule or any — any rule. So, what I was saying is that we have an agreement that they will let pass through the checkpoints that they — the Taliban — control. They’ve let Americans through. Q But given this — given the negotiations with the Taliban, the scenes that we’re seeing, can you just fully explain why the plan wasn’t to go ahead with these evacuations of both Americans and allies before the drawdowns began, before Bagram was closed, looking back several months? Because whether it was now or several months from now, there seems to be a broad consensus that the Taliban would make these gains and these would be needed at some point. Well, yeah, at some point. But the point was that although we were in contact with the Taliban and Doha for this whole period of time, that “some point” wasn’t expected to be the total demise of the Afghan National Force, which was 300 persons. Let’s assume the Afghan National Force had continued to fight and ha- — and they were surrounding Kabul. It’d be a very different story. Very different story. But the con- — overwhelming consensus was that they — this was not — they were not going to collapse. The Afghan forces, they were not going to leave. They were not going to just abandon and then put down their arms and take off. So, that’s what’s happened. Thank you very, very much. Thank you. 2:17 P.M. EDT
Good afternoon. I want to speak today to the unfolding situation in Afghanistan: the developments that have taken place in the last week and the steps we’re taking to address the rapidly evolving events. My national security team and I have been closely monitoring the situation on the ground in Afghanistan and moving quickly to execute the plans we had put in place to respond to every constituency, including — and contingency — including the rapid collapse we’re seeing now. I’ll speak more in a moment about the specific steps we’re taking, but I want to remind everyone how we got here and what America’s interests are in Afghanistan. We went to Afghanistan almost 20 years ago with clear goals: get those who attacked us on September 11th, 2001, and make sure al Qaeda could not use Afghanistan as a base from which to attack us again. We did that. We severely degraded al Qaeda in Afghanistan. We never gave up the hunt for Osama bin Laden, and we got him. That was a decade ago. Our mission in Afghanistan was never supposed to have been nation building. It was never supposed to be creating a unified, centralized democracy. Our only vital national interest in Afghanistan remains today what it has always been: preventing a terrorist attack on American homeland. I’ve argued for many years that our mission should be narrowly focused on counterterrorism — not counterinsurgency or nation building. That’s why I opposed the surge when it was proposed in 2009 when I was Vice President. And that’s why, as President, I am adamant that we focus on the threats we face today in 2021 — not yesterday’s threats. Today, the terrorist threat has metastasized well beyond Afghanistan: al Shabaab in Somalia, al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, al-Nusra in Syria, ISIS attempting to create a caliphate in Syria and Iraq and establishing affiliates in multiple countries in Africa and Asia. These threats warrant our attention and our resources. We conduct effective counterterrorism missions against terrorist groups in multiple countries where we don’t have a permanent military presence. If necessary, we will do the same in Afghanistan. We’ve developed counterterrorism over-the-horizon capability that will allow us to keep our eyes firmly fixed on any direct threats to the United States in the region and to act quickly and decisively if needed. When I came into office, I inherited a deal that President Trump negotiated with the Taliban. Under his agreement, U.S. forces would be out of Afghanistan by May 1, 2021 — just a little over three months after I took office. U.S. forces had already drawn down during the Trump administration from roughly 15,500 American forces to 2,500 troops in country, and the Taliban was at its strongest militarily since 2001. The choice I had to make, as your President, was either to follow through on that agreement or be prepared to go back to fighting the Taliban in the middle of the spring fighting season. There would have been no ceasefire after May 1. There was no agreement protecting our forces after May 1. There was no status quo of stability without American casualties after May 1. There was only the cold reality of either following through on the agreement to withdraw our forces or escalating the conflict and sending thousands more American troops back into combat in Afghanistan, lurching into the third decade of conflict. I stand squarely behind my decision. After 20 years, I’ve learned the hard way that there was never a good time to withdraw U.S. forces. That’s why we were still there. We were clear-eyed about the risks. We planned for every contingency. But I always promised the American people that I will be straight with you. The truth is: This did unfold more quickly than we had anticipated. So what’s happened? Afghanistan political leaders gave up and fled the country. The Afghan military collapsed, sometimes without trying to fight. If anything, the developments of the past week reinforced that ending U.S. military involvement in Afghanistan now was the right decision. American troops cannot and should not be fighting in a war and dying in a war that Afghan forces are not willing to fight for themselves. We spent over a trillion dollars. We trained and equipped an Afghan military force of some 300,000 strong — incredibly well equipped — a force larger in size than the militaries of many of our NATO allies. We gave them every tool they could need. We paid their salaries, provided for the maintenance of their air force — something the Taliban doesn’t have. Taliban does not have an air force. We provided close air support. We gave them every chance to determine their own future. What we could not provide them was the will to fight for that future. There’s some very brave and capable Afghan special forces units and soldiers, but if Afghanistan is unable to mount any real resistance to the Taliban now, there is no chance that 1 year — 1 more year, 5 more years, or 20 more years of U.S. military boots on the ground would’ve made any difference. And here’s what I believe to my core: It is wrong to order American troops to step up when Afghanistan’s own armed forces would not. If the political leaders of Afghanistan were unable to come together for the good of their people, unable to negotiate for the future of their country when the chips were down, they would never have done so while U.S. troops remained in Afghanistan bearing the brunt of the fighting for them. And our true strategic competitors — China and Russia — would love nothing more than the United States to continue to funnel billions of dollars in resources and attention into stabilizing Afghanistan indefinitely. When I hosted President Ghani and Chairman Abdullah at the White House in June and again when I spoke by phone to Ghani in July, we had very frank conversations. We talked about how Afghanistan should prepare to fight their civil wars after the U.S. military departed, to clean up the corruption in government so the government could function for the Afghan people. We talked extensively about the need for Afghan leaders to unite politically. They failed to do any of that. I also urged them to engage in diplomacy, to seek a political settlement with the Taliban. This advice was flatly refused. Mr. Ghani insisted the Afghan forces would fight, but obviously he was wrong. So I’m left again to ask of those who argue that we should stay: How many more generations of America’s daughters and sons would you have me send to fight Afghans — Afghanistan’s civil war when Afghan troops will not? How many more lives — American lives — is it worth? How many endless rows of headstones at Arlington National Cemetery? I’m clear on my answer: I will not repeat the mistakes we’ve made in the past — the mistake of staying and fighting indefinitely in a conflict that is not in the national interest of the United States, of doubling down on a civil war in a foreign country, of attempting to remake a country through the endless military deployments of U.S. forces. Those are the mistakes we cannot continue to repeat, because we have significant vital interests in the world that we cannot afford to ignore. I also want to acknowledge how painful this is to so many of us. The scenes we’re seeing in Afghanistan, they’re gut-wrenching, particularly for our veterans, our diplomats, humanitarian workers, for anyone who has spent time on the ground working to support the Afghan people. For those who have lost loved ones in Afghanistan and for Americans who have fought and served in the country — serve our country in Afghanistan — this is deeply, deeply personal. It is for me as well. I’ve worked on these issues as long as anyone. I’ve been throughout Afghanistan during this war — while the war was going on — from Kabul to Kandahar to the Kunar Valley. I’ve traveled there on four different occasions. I met with the people. I’ve spoken to the leaders. I spent time with our troops. And I came to understand firsthand what was and was not possible in Afghanistan. So, now we’re fercus — focused on what is possible. We will continue to support the Afghan people. We will lead with our diplomacy, our international influence, and our humanitarian aid. We’ll continue to push for regional diplomacy and engagement to prevent violence and instability. We’ll continue to speak out for the basic rights of the Afghan people — of women and girls — just as we speak out all over the world. I have been clear that human rights must be the center of our foreign policy, not the periphery. But the way to do it is not through endless military deployments; it’s with our diplomacy, our economic tools, and rallying the world to join us. Now, let me lay out the current mission in Afghanistan. I was asked to authorize — and I did — 6,000 U.S. troops to deploy to Afghanistan for the purpose of assisting in the departure of U.S. and Allied civilian personnel from Afghanistan, and to evacuate our Afghan allies and vulnerable Afghans to safety outside of Afghanistan. Our troops are working to secure the airfield and to ensure continued operation of both the civilian and military flights. We’re taking over air traffic control. We have safely shut down our embassy and transferred our diplomats. Our dip- — our diplomatic presence is now consolidated at the airport as well. Over the coming days, we intend to transport out thousands of American citizens who have been living and working in Afghanistan. We’ll also continue to support the safe departure of civilian personnel — the civilian personnel of our Allies who are still serving in Afghanistan. Operation Allies Refugee , which I announced back in July, has already moved 2,000 Afghans who are eligible for Special Immigration Visas and their families to the United States. In the coming days, the U.S. military will provide assistance to move more SIV-eligible Afghans and their families out of Afghanistan. We’re also expanding refugee access to cover other vulnerable Afghans who worked for our embassy: U.S. non-governmental agencies — or the U.S. non-governmental organizations; and Afghans who otherwise are at great risk; and U.S. news agencies. I know that there are concerns about why we did not begin evacuating Afghans — civilians sooner. Part of the answer is some of the Afghans did not want to leave earlier — still hopeful for their country. And part of it was because the Afghan government and its supporters discouraged us from organizing a mass exodus to avoid triggering, as they said, “a crisis of confidence.” American troops are performing this mission as professionally and as effectively as they always do, but it is not without risks. As we carry out this departure, we have made it clear to the Taliban: If they attack our personnel or disrupt our operation, the U.S. presence will be swift and the response will be swift and forceful. We will defend our people with devastating force if necessary. Our current military mission will be short in time, limited in scope, and focused in its objectives: Get our people and our allies to safety as quickly as possible. And once we have completed this mission, we will conclude our military withdrawal. We will end America’s longest war after 20 long years of bloodshed. The events we’re seeing now are sadly proof that no amount of military force would ever deliver a stable, united, and secure Afghanistan — as known in history as the “graveyard of empires.” What is happening now could just as easily have happened 5 years ago or 15 years in the future. We have to be honest: Our mission in Afghanistan has taken many missteps — made many missteps over the past two decades. I’m now the fourth American President to preside over war in Afghanistan — two Democrats and two Republicans. I will not pass this responsibly on — responsibility on to a fifth President. I will not mislead the American people by claiming that just a little more time in Afghanistan will make all the difference. Nor will I shrink from my share of responsibility for where we are today and how we must move forward from here. I am President of the United States of America, and the buck stops with me. I am deeply saddened by the facts we now face. But I do not regret my decision to end America’s warfighting in Afghanistan and maintain a laser-focus on our counterterrorism missions there and in other parts of the world. Our mission to degrade the terrorist threat of al Qaeda in Afghanistan and kill Osama bin Laden was a success. Our decades-long effort to overcome centuries of history and permanently change and remake Afghanistan was not, and I wrote and believed it never could be. I cannot and I will not ask our troops to fight on endlessly in another — in another country’s civil war, taking casualties, suffering life-shattering injuries, leaving families broken by grief and loss. This is not in our national security interest. It is not what the American people want. It is not what our troops, who have sacrificed so much over the past two decades, deserve. I made a commitment to the American people when I ran for President that I would bring America’s military involvement in Afghanistan to an end. And while it’s been hard and messy — and yes, far from perfect — I’ve honored that commitment. More importantly, I made a commitment to the brave men and women who serve this nation that I wasn’t going to ask them to continue to risk their lives in a military action that should have ended long ago. Our leaders did that in Vietnam when I got here as a young man. I will not do it in Afghanistan. I know my decision will be criticized, but I would rather take all that criticism than pass this decision on to another President of the United States — yet another one — a fifth one. Because it’s the right one — it’s the right decision for our people. The right one for our brave service members who have risked their lives serving our nation. And it’s the right one for America. So, thank you. May God protect our troops, our diplomats, and all of the brave Americans serving in harm’s way. 4:21 P.M. EDT
Good afternoon. Earlier today, I was briefed by our senior military and national security leaders on the status of the drawdown of U.S. forces and allied forces in Afghanistan. When I announced our drawdown in April, I said we would be out by September, and we’re on track to meet that target. Our military mission in Afghanistan will conclude on August 31st. The drawdown is proceeding in a secure and orderly way, prioritizing the safety of our troops as they depart. Our military commanders advised me that once I made the decision to end the war, we needed to move swiftly to conduct the main elements of the drawdown. And in this context, speed is safety. And thanks to the way in which we have managed our withdrawal, no one — no one U.S. forces or any forces have — have been lost. Conducting our drawdown differently would have certainly come with a increased risk of safety to our personnel. To me, those risks were unacceptable. And there was never any doubt that our military would perform this task efficiently and with the highest level of professionalism. That’s what they do. And the same is true of our NATO Allies and partners who have supported — we are supporting, and supporting us as well, as they conclude their retrograde. I want to be clear: The U.S. military mission in Afghanistan continues through the end of August. We remain — we retain personnel and capacities in the country, and we maintain some authority — excuse me, the same authority under which we’ve been operating for some time. As I said in April, the United States did what we went to do in Afghanistan: to get the terrorists who attacked us on 9/11 and to deliver justice to Osama Bin Laden, and to degrade the terrorist threat to keep Afghanistan from becoming a base from which attacks could be continued against the United States. We achieved those objectives. That’s why we went. We did not go to Afghanistan to nation-build. And it’s the right and the responsibility of the Afghan people alone to decide their future and how they want to run their country. Together, with our NATO Allies and partners, we have trained and equipped over three hu- — nearly 300,000 current serving members of the military — of the Afghan National Security Force, and many beyond that who are no longer serving. Add to that, hundreds of thousands more Afghan National Defense and Security Forces trained over the last two decades. We provided our Afghan partners with all the tools — let me emphasize: all the tools, training, and equipment of any modern military. We provided advanced weaponry. And we’re going to continue to provide funding and equipment. And we’ll ensure they have the capacity to maintain their air force. But most critically, as I stressed in my meeting just two weeks ago with President Ghani and Chairman Abdullah, Afghan leaders have to come together and drive toward a future that the Afghan people want and they deserve. In our meeting, I also assured Ghani that U.S. support for the people of Afghanistan will endure. We will continue to provide civilian and humanitarian assistance, including speaking out for the rights of women and girls. I intend to maintain our diplomatic presedence in Afghanistan, and we are coordinating closely with our international partners in order to continue to secure the international airport. And we’re going to engage in a determined diplomacy to pursue peace and a peace agreement that will end this senseless violence. I’ve asked Secretary of State Blinken and our Special Representative for Afghanistan Reconciliation to work vigorously with the parties in Afghanistan, as well as the regional and international stakeholders to support a negotiated solution. To be clear — to be clear: Countries in the region have an essential role to play in supporting a peaceful settlement. We’ll work with them, and they should help step up their efforts as well. We’re going to continue to work for the release of detained Americans, including Mark — excuse me — Fre– Frerichs — I want to pronounce the name correctly; I mis- — I misspoke — so that he can return to his family safely. We’re also going to continue to make sure that we take on the Afghan nationals who work side-by-side with U.S. forces, including interpreters and translators — since we’re no longer going to have military there after this; we’re not going to need them and they have no jobs — who are also going to be vital to our efforts so they — and they’ve been very vital — and so their families are not exposed to danger as well. We’ve already dramatically accelerated the procedure time for Special Immigrant Visas to bring them to the United States. Since I was inaugurated on January 20th, we’ve already approved 2,500 Special Immigrant Visas to come to the United States. Up to now, fewer than half have exercised their right to do that. Half have gotten on aircraft and com — commercial flights and come, and the other half believe they want to stay — at least thus far. We’re working closely with Congress to change the authorization legislation so that we can streamline the process of approving those visas. And those who have stood up for the operation to physically relocate thousands of Afghans and their families before the U.S. military mission concludes so that, if they choose, they can wait safely outside of Afghanistan while their U.S. visas are being processed. The operation has identified U.S. facilities outside of the continental United States, as well as in third countries, to host our Afghan allies, if they ch- — if they so choose. And, starting this month, we’re going to begin to re- — re- — reloc- — we’re going to begin relocation flights for Afghanistan SIV applicants and their families who choose to leave. We have a point person in the White House and at the State Department-led task force coordinating all these efforts. But our message to those women and men is clear: There is a home for you in the United States if you so choose, and we will stand with you just as you stood with us. When I made the decision to end the U.S. military involvement in Afghanistan, I judged that it was not in the national interest of the United States of America to continue fighting this war indefinitely. I made the decision with clear eyes, and I am briefed daily on the battlefield updates. But for those who have argued that we should stay just six more months or just one more year, I ask them to consider the lessons of recent history. In 2011, the NATO Allies and partners agreed that we would end our combat mission in 2014. In 2014, some argued, “One more year.” So we kept fighting, and we kept taking casualties. In 2015, the same. And on and on. Nearly 20 years of experience has shown us that the current security situation only confirms that “just one more year” of fighting in Afghanistan is not a solution but a recipe for being there indefinitely. It’s up to Afghans to make the decision about the future of their country. Others are more direct. Their argument is that we should stay with the Afghan — in Afghanistan indefinitely. In doing so, they point to the fact that we — we have not taken losses in this last year, so they claim that the cost of just maintaining the status quo is minimal. But that ignores the reality and the facts that already presented on the ground in Afghanistan when I took office: The Taliban was at its strongest mil- — is at its strongest militarily since 2001. The number of U.S. forces in Afghanistan had been reduced to a bare minimum. And the United States, in the last administration, made an agreement that the — with the Taliban to remove all our forces by May 1 of this past — of this year. That’s what I inherited. That agreement was the reason the Taliban had ceased major attacks against U.S. forces. If, in April, I had instead announced that the United States was going to back — going back on that agreement made by the last administration — the United States and allied forces would remain in Afghanistan for the foreseeable future — the Taliban would have again begun to target our forces. The status quo was not an option. Staying would have meant U.S. troops taking casualties; American men and women back in the middle of a civil war. And we would have run the risk of having to send more troops back into Afghanistan to defend our remaining troops. Once that agreement with the Taliban had been made, staying with a bare minimum force was no longer possible. So let me ask those who wanted us to stay: How many more — how many thousands more of America’s daughters and sons are you willing to risk? How long would you have them stay? Already we have members of our military whose parents fought in Afghanistan 20 years ago. Would you send their children and their grandchildren as well? Would you send your own son or daughter? After 20 years — a trillion dollars spent training and equipping hundreds of thousands of Afghan National Security and Defense Forces, 2,448 Americans killed, 20,722 more wounded, and untold thousands coming home with unseen trauma to their mental health — I will not send another generation of Americans to war in Afghanistan with no reasonable expectation of achieving a different outcome. The United States cannot afford to remain tethered to policies creating a response to a world as it was 20 years ago. We need to meet the threats where they are today. Today, the terrorist threat has metastasized beyond Afghanistan. So, we are repositioning our resources and adapting our counterterrorism posture to meet the threats where they are now significantly higher: in South Asia, the Middle East, and Africa. But make no mistake: Our military and intelligence leaders are confident they have the capabilities to protect the homeland and our interests from any resurgent terrorist challenge emerging or emanating from Afghanistan. We are developing a counterterrorism over-the-horizon capability that will allow us to keep our eyes firmly fixed on any direct threats to the United States in the region, and act quickly and decisively if needed. And we also need to focus on shoring up America’s core strengths to meet the strategic competition with China and other nations that is really going to determine — determine our future. We have to defeat COVID-19 at home and around the world, make sure we’re better prepared for the next pandemic or biological threat. We need to establish international norms for cyberspace and the use of emergenc- — emerging technologies. We need to take concerted action to fight existential threats of climate change. And we will be more formidable to our adversaries and competitors over the long run if we fight the battles of the next 20 years, not the last 20 years. Finally, I want to recognize the incredible sacrifice and dedication that the U.S. military and civilian personnel, serving alongside our Allies and partners, have made over the last two decades in Afghanistan. I want to honor the significance of what they’ve accomplished and the great personal risk they encountered and the incredible cost to their families: pursuing the terrorist threat in some of the most unforgiving terrain on the planet — and I’ve been almost throughout that entire country; ensuring there hasn’t been another attack on the homeland from Afghanistan for the last 20 years; taking out Bin Laden. I want to thank you all for your service and the dedication to the mission so many of you have given, and to the sacrifices that you and your families have made over the long course of this war. We’ll never forget those who gave the last full measure of devotion for their country in Afghanistan, nor those whose lives have been immeasurably altered by wounds sustained in service to their country. We’re ending America’s longest war, but we’ll always, always honor the bravery of the American patriots who served in it. May God bless you all, and may God protect our troops. Thank you. Q Mr. President — do you trust the Taliban, Mr. President? Q Is a Taliban takeover of Afghanistan now inevitable? No, it is not. Q Why? Because you — the Afghan troops have 300,000 well-equipped — as well-equipped as any army in the world — and an air force against something like 75,000 Taliban. It is not inevitable. Q Do you trust the Taliban, Mr. President? Do you trust the Taliban, sir? You — is that a serious question? Q It is absolutely a serious question. Do you trust the Taliban? No, I do not. Q Do you trust handing over the country to the Taliban? No, I do not trust the Taliban. Q So why are you handing the country over? Q Mr. President, is the U.S. responsible for the deaths of Afghans after you leave the country? Q Mr. President, will you amplify that question, please? Will you amplify your answer, please — why you don’t trust the Taliban? It’s a — it’s a silly question. Do I trust the Taliban? No. But I trust the capacity of the Afghan military, who is better trained, better equipped, and more re- — more competent in terms of conducting war. Yes, ma’am. Q Thank you, Mr. President. Given the amount of money that has been spent and the number of lives that have been lost, in your view, with making this decision, were the last 20 years worth it? You know my record. I can tell by the way you asked the question. I opposed permanently having American forces in Afghanistan. I argued, from the beginning, as you may recall — it came to light after the administration was over, last — our administration — no nation has ever unified Afghanistan. No nation. Empires have gone there and not done it. The focus we had — and I strongly support it — and you may remember I physically went to Afghanistan. I was up in that pass where Osama bin Laden was — allegedly escaped or — out of harm’s way. We went for two reasons: one, to bring Osama bin Laden to the gates of hell, as I said at the time. The second reason was to eliminate al Qaeda’s capacity to deal with more attacks on the United States from that territory. We accomplished both of those objectives — period. That’s what I believed, from the beginning, why we should be and why we should have gone to Afghanistan. That job had been over for some time. And that’s why I believe that this is the right decision and, quite frankly, overdue. Q Mr. President, has the civilian government hailed the people of Afghanistan? Q Mr. President, thank you very much. Your own intelligence community has assessed that the Afghan government will likely collapse. That is not true. Q Is it — can you please clarify what they have told you about whether that will happen or not? That is not true. They did not — they didn’t — did not reach that conclusion. Q So what is the level of confidence that they have that it will not collapse? The Afghan government and leadership has to come together. They clearly have the capacity to sustain the government in place. The question is: Will they generate the kind of cohesion to do it? It’s not a question of whether they have the capacity. They have the capacity. They have the forces. They have the equipment. The question is: Will they do it? And I want to make clear what I made clear to Ghani: that we are not going just sus- — walk away and not sustain their ability to maintain that force. We are. We’re going to also work to make sure we help them in terms of everything from food necessities and other things in — in the region. But — but, there’s not a conclusion that, in fact, they cannot defeat the Taliban. I believe the only way there’s going to be — this is now Joe Biden, not the intelligence community — the only way there’s ultimately going to be peace and security in Afghanistan is that they work out a modus vivendi with the Taliban and they make a judgment as to how they can make peace. And the likelihood there’s going to be one unified government in Afghanistan controlling the whole country is highly unlikely. Q Mr. President, thank you. But we have talked to your own top general in Afghanistan, General Scott Miller. He told ABC News the conditions are so concerning at this point that it could result in a civil war. So, if Kabul falls to the Taliban, what will the United States do about it? Look, you’ve said two things — one, that if it could result in a civil war — that’s different than the Taliban succeeding, number one. Number two, the question of what will be done is going to be implicated — is going to implicate the entire region as well. There’s a number of countries who have a grave concern about what’s going to happen in Afghanistan relative to their security. The question is: How much of a threat to the United States of America and to our allies is whatever results in terms of a government or an agreement? That’s when that judgement will be made. Q Mr. President, some Vietnamese veterans see echoes of their experience in this withdrawal in Afghanistan. Do you see any parallels between this withdrawal and what happened in Vietnam, with some people feeling — None whatsoever. Zero. What you had is — you had entire brigades breaking through the gates of our embassy — six, if I’m not mistaken. The Taliban is not the south — the North Vietnamese army. They’re not — they’re not remotely comparable in terms of capability. There’s going to be no circumstance where you see people being lifted off the roof of a embassy in the — of the United States from Afghanistan. It is not at all comparable. Q And, Mr. President — Q Mr. President, can I — I’ll take him and then I’ll — and then I’ll go — I’ll go to the other side. Hang on a second. Q Mr. President, how serious was the corruption among the Afghanistan government to this mission failing there? Well, first of all, the mission hasn’t failed, yet. There is in Afghanistan — in all parties, there’s been corruption. The question is, can there be an agreement on unity of purpose? What is the objective? For example, it started off — there were going to be negotiations between the Taliban and the Afghan National Security Forces and the Afghan government. That — that of — it didn’t come to — it didn’t come to fruition. So the question now is, where do they go from here? That — the jury is still out. But the likelihood there’s going to be the Taliban overrunning everything and owning the whole country is highly unlikely. Yes, ma’am. Q Mr. President, will the United States be responsible for the loss of Afghan civilian lives that could happen after a — No. Q — military exit? No, no, no. It’s up to the people of Afghanistan to decide on what government they want, not us to impose the government on them. No country has ever been able to do that. Keep in mind, as a student of history, as I’m sure you are, never has Afghanistan been a united country, not in all of its history. Not in all of its history. Q Mr. President, if this isn’t a “mission accomplished” moment, what is it, in your view? No, there’s no “mission accomplished.” Q How would you describe it? The mission was accomplished in that we get — got Osama bin Laden, and terrorism is not emanating from that part of the world. Q Mr. President, if “speed is safety,” as you just said in your remarks, are you satisfied with the timeline of relocating Afghan nationals? Is it happening quickly enough to your satisfaction, if it may not happen until next month, at the end? Well, much of it has already happened. There’s already been people — about a thousand people have gotten on aircraft and come home — come to the United States already on commercial aircraft. So, as I said, there’s over 2,500 people that as — from January to now, have gotten those visas. And only half decided that they wanted to leave. The point is that I think the whole process has to be speeded up, period, in terms of being able to get these visas. Q Why can’t the U.S. evacuate these Afghan translators to the United States to await their visa processing as some immigrants at the southern border have been allowed to do? Because the law doesn’t allow that to happen. And that’s why we’re asking the Congress to consider changing the law. But in the meantime, we can guarantee their safety, if they wish to leave, by taking them to third countries and/or, while the wait is taking place, to come to — to — and hopefully, while they’re waiting there, to be able to bring them back to the United States, if that’s what they choose to do. Q And what do you make — and what do you make, sir, of the Taliban being in Russia today? Q Mr. President, I’m from Afghanistan. I am Afghan woman. Any message — good message for Afghan women in future? Because they have achievement — they are really concerned about their achievement. They are very concerned, with good reason. Q Yes. When I was in Afghanistan — I’ve been there a number of times — I remember being in a school outside and — and, by the way, the schools in Afghanistan are not fundamentally unlike schools in the West Coast, where they have, you know, a — an area in the middle that is sort of like — it looks like a playground and single-story buildings connected around it. And I remember saying to — speaking to a group of young women — I guess they were roughly — don’t hold me to this — they look like they’d be 14, 15 years old. And they’re in school, and there’s a tiered classroom with single light bulbs hanging from the ceiling, as I know you know. And I said, “You know, the United States came here to make sure that we got this terrorist, Osama bin Laden, and that terrorists didn’t amass again to — to go after our country. And then we’re going to have to leave.” And a young woman said, “You can’t leave. You can’t leave.” It was — it was heartbreaking. “You can’t leave,” she said. “I want to be a doctor. I want to be a doctor. I want to be a doctor. If you leave, I’ll never be able to be a doctor.” Well, that’s why we spent so much time and money training the Afghan Security Forces to do the work of defending that. If every work — Well, anyway — so, yes, I’m aware. I’m going to take one more question. Q Mr. President, have you spoken with any Taliban officials about the withdrawal? Q the Taliban being in Russia today — the Taliban — Q Mr. — Mr. President, I — thank you. I wanted to ask: With the benefit of hindsight, you’ve spoken to the fact that the Taliban are sort of at their militarily strongest point that you’ve seen in 20 years. How do you feel personally about that, with the benefit of hindsight and all of the dollars and investments and American troops that were sent there? Relative to the training and capacity of the ANSF and the training of the federal police, they’re not even close in terms of their capacity. I was making the point — the point was that here we were; I was — the argument is, “Well, we could stay because no one was dying. No Americans are being shot. So why leave?” Once the agreement was made by the last administration that we were going to leave by May 1st, it was very clear that a Taliban that had always been a problem was even a more sophisticated problem than they were than before. Not more sophisticated than the ANSF, the government. More than they were. The point being that it would have increased the prospect that they would have been able to take more lives of Americans if they decided we weren’t going to go after them. That was the point I was making. Thank you all so very much. Thank you. 2:34 P.M. EDT
Well, thank you. Thank you both very much. It’s been one of the great pleasures getting to know you both personally and our official positions. And we were at the G7, and again today — I apologize I kept my colleagues in the closed meeting. But I want to — you know, this is – I haven’t been back to Brussels or the EU since 2017, and since the — back then, also the first summit back in 2014. But I brought the A-team with me today. And, you know, I’ve said, both publicly and privately, that America is back, and this is why we’re here in full force. I’m happy to have with me today the members of my Cabinet: Secretary of State, Anthony Blinken; he suffers from the problem of having worked with me for years. And also Trade Representative, Ambassador Katherine Tai, who has made some real progress already. And Secretary of Commerce, Gina Raimondo, who was a first-rate governor and one of the brightest people that we’ve worked with, and agreed to come on as our Secretary of Commerce. And one of the things that you and I were talking about – and will come as no shock to either of you: Europe is our natural partner, and the reason is we’re committed to the same democratic norms and institutions, and are — they are increasingly under attack. And we — I’ve said it before, and I apologize for repeating — oh, I didn’t mention Jake Sullivan National Security Advisor. I’m leaving out a lot of people here. I apologize. I’m going to get in trouble. But anyway, we’ll get back to that in a minute. But we — you know, there’s a lot that is happening. I used to always — my friends would kid me while in the United States Senate, because I served there, for always quoting Irish poets. You think I quoted Irish poets because I’m Irish. That’s not the reason. I quote them because they’re the best poets in the world — that’s why. But all kidding aside, there is a — there is a stanza from a poem from an Irish poet, who . He said, “All is changed, changed utterly: A terrible beauty has been born.” I think all has changed in the last 10, 12 years, and it’s not because of any one person. I think we’re in the midst of terrible beauty having been born — a great shift in technology, a great shift in the development of the world, and it’s causing great anxiety in each our countries and uncertainty among many of our colleagues of what’s going to be their place in the world. Are they going to be replaced by a new technology? Are they going to no longer have a job? And what are they going to do? And that comes along at the same time that that also generates — when an uncertainty is generated politically like that, by individuals, it also generates some folks who are less than — how can I say it? — some of them are like charlatans, trying to take advantage of those concerns. And we see it in Europe. We see it in the United States. We’ve seen it around the world. And it’s phony populism. So it seems to me that the best answer to deal with these changes is that — to have a circumstance where our economies grow, and they grow together, and they grow still based on the value set that united us in the first place. And I think we do share just the same basic values of human dignity and human rights as my colleagues. I’ll be very colloquial with you: My dad had a transition where, in the city we lived in, coal was dying; it was no longer relevant. You know, he was not a — my great grandfather was a coal miner; he was a mining engineer. But in northeastern Pennsylvania, when coal died — my dad was a salesperson — and the economy collapsed. And we moved to another part where there were jobs, in southern — into — down in Delaware, a very — just across the Pennsylvania border. And my family — my siblings and I would hear him often use the following expression: He said, “Joe, a job is about a lot more than a paycheck. It’s about your dignity. It’s about respect. It’s about your place in the community. It’s about being able to look at your child in the eye and say ‘Honey, it’s going to be okay’ and mean it.” I think we sometimes forget that. It’s about the dignity of the worker and them being able to hold their head high. And so I think we have an enormous opportunity, if we think in terms of these changes — particularly in terms of global warming — if we think of them in terms of jobs. The kind of jobs that we’re going to have to create to preserve the environment are jobs that can pay well, that are going to be technologies that working-class, blue-collar workers, as we say in the States, will be able to make more money, be able to do well. And — but we have to, all of us, accommodate those changes and provide for them. And so, I think we have a lot to deal with, from COVID-19 to whether or not we’re in a position that we can generate the kind of strengthening in transatlantic trade and technological cooperation. There are, sort of, a different set of priorities with the same objective: How do likeminded countries, sharing the same values, work together to improve the living standard for not only our people, but for the rest of the world? And I think we have the capacity to do that, and it’s going to take an awful lot of hard work and determination. And I’ll conclude by saying: One of the reasons I’m optimistic is because of our younger generation, in Europe as well as the United States. The young generation — this one — is the best educated in American history. It is also the least prejudiced, the most open, and the most — the most committed. And I think that we have reason to believe that if we provide the policies that are consistent, that provide for the kind of growth and opportunity for them — and education plays a gigantic part of that — I think we — I think the future is very, very bright. I think we have an opportunity to do some, really, very good things. And with that, I should — as my mother would say, I should “hush up” and let this discussion move forward. 1:21 P.M. CEST
Folks, I’ve just spoken with Prime Minister Netanyahu. Earlier today, I spoke with President Al Sisi of Egypt. And Minister — Prime Minister Netanyahu informed me that Israel has agreed to a mutual, unconditional ceasefire to begin in less than two hours. The Egyptians have now informed us that Hamas and the other groups in Gaza have also agreed. In my conversation with President Netanyahu, I commended him for the decision to bring the current hostilities to a close within less than 11 days. I also emphasized what I have said throughout this conflict: The United States fully supports Israel’s right to defend itself against indiscriminate rocket attacks from Hamas and other Gaza-based terrorist groups that have taken the lives of innocent civilians in Israel. The Prime Minister also shared with me his appreciation for the Iron Dome system, which our nations developed together and which has saved the lives of countless Israeli citizens, both Arab and Jew. I assured him of my full support to replenish Israel’s Iron Dome system to ensure its defenses and security in the future. Over the last 11 days, I spoke with the Prime Minister six times. I’ve also spoken with President Abbas of the Palestinian Authority more than once in part of our intense diplomatic engagement. And I want to also thank the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Defense, our National Security Advisor, and everyone on our team for their incredible efforts to bring this about — this outcome that we’re about to see. You know, we’ve held intensive high-level discussions, hour by hour, literally — Egypt, the Palestinian Authority, and other Middle Eastern countries — with an aim of avoiding the sort of prolonged conflict we’ve seen in previous years when the hostilities have broken out. I extend my sincere gratitude to President Al Sisi and the senior Egyptian officials who played a critical role in this diplomacy. I also apprec- — appreciate the contributions of other parties in the region who have been engaged in working towards the end of hostilities. These hostilities have resulted in the tragic deaths of so many civilians, including children. And I send my sincere condolences to all the families — Israeli and Palestinian — who have lost loved ones and my hope for a full recovery for the wounded. The United States is committed to working with the United Nations, and we remain committed to working with the United Nations and other international stakeholders to provide rapid humanitarian assistance and to marshal international support for the people of Gaza and the Gaza rec- — reconstruction efforts. We will do this in full partnership with the Palestinian Authority — not Hamas, the Authority — in a manner that does not permit Hamas to simply restock its military arsenal. I believe the Palestinians and Israelis equally deserve to live safely and securely and to enjoy equal measures of freedom, prosperity, and democracy. My administration will continue our quiet and relentless diplomacy toward that end. I believe we have a genuine opportunity to make progress, and I’m committed to working for it. I want to thank you all. And may God bless you all. And I pray that this continues. Thank you so much. 6:08 P.M. EDT
Hello, folks. Thanks for coming over. Good afternoon, everyone. Earlier this week, I spoke with President Putin of Russia about the nature of our relationship — the relationship between our two countries. And I was candid and respectful; the conversation was candid and respectful. Two great powers with significant responsibility for global stability. And President Putin and I have had a significant responsibility to steward that relationship. I take that responsibility very seriously, as I’m sure he does. Russia and Americans are both proud and patriotic people. And I believe the Russian people, like the American people, are invested in peaceful and a secure future of our world. During the campaign for my — for the presidency, I was unequivocal that if I was elected President, I’d respond to any attempt to influence our elections — the last election — and — because elections are sacred. They’re sovereign undertakings, and they’re an expression of the will of the American people, and we cannot allow a foreign power to interfere in our dome- — democratic process with impunity. And I told him: If it turned out that the invest- — as I thought — that there was engagement in our elections, that I would — that I’d respond. Later, during the transition, as we learned more about the SolarWinds cyber intrusion, I made clear that I would respond once we determined who had, in fact, conducted a hack on the scope and scale that occurred. When President Putin called me in January, after I was sworn in, to congratulate me, I told him that my administration — we were looking very carefully, now that we had access to all the data, at the issues that — to assess Russia’s role and then determine what response we would make. When we spoke again this week, I told him that we would shortly be responding in a measured and proportionate way because we had concluded that they had interfered in the election and SolarWinds was totally out of the — inappropriate. Today, I’ve approved several steps, including expulsion of several Russian officials, as a consequence of their actions. I’ve also signed an executive order authorizing new measures, including sanctions to address specific harmful actions that Russia has taken against U.S. interests. I was clear with President Putin that we could have gone further, but I chose not to do so, to be — I chose to be proportionate. The United States is not looking to kick off a cycle of ecs- — of escalation and conflict with Russia. We want a stable, predictable relationship. If Russia continues to interfere with our democracy, I’m prepared to take further actions to respond. It is my responsibility, as President of the United States, to do so. But throughout our long history of competition, our two countries have been able to find ways to manage tensions and to keep them from escalating out of control. There are also areas where Russia and the United States can and should work together. For example, in the earliest days of my administration, we were able to move quickly to extend, for five years, the New START Treaty, and maintain that key element of nuclear stability between our nations. That was in the interest of the United States, of Russia, and, quite frankly, of the world, and we got it done. When I spoke to President Putin, I expressed my belief that communication between the two of us, personally and directly, was to be essential in moving forward to a more effective relationship. And he agreed on that point. To that end, I proposed that we meet in person this summer in Europe, for a summit to address a range of issues facing both of our countries. Our teams are discussing that possibility right now. And out of that summit — were it to occur, and I believe it will — the United States and Russia could launch a strategic stability dialogue to pursue cooperation in arms control and security. We can address critical global challenges that require Russia and the United States to work together, including reining in nuclear threats from Iran and North Korea, ending this pandemic globally, and meeting the existential crisis of climate change. I also made clear to President Clutin that the United — Putin — that the United States is unwavering in our support of our allies and partners in Europe. In that vein, I expressed concern about Russia’s military buildup on Ukraine’s border and occup- — and in occupied Crimea. I affirmed U.S. support for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine. And I strongly urged him to refrain from any military action. Now is the time to de-escalate. The way forward is through thoughtful dialogue and diplomatic process. The U.S. is prepared to continue constructively to move forward that process. My bottom line is this: Where it is in the interest of the United States to work with Russia, we should and we will. Where Russia seeks to violate the interests of the United States, we will respond. And we’ll always stand in defense of our country, our institutions, our people, and our allies. Thank you very much for your time. Q Mr. President, did President Putin give you any indication in that call that he is willing to change his behavior? We indicated we would talk about it. I laid out, as I said, very simply — I told — I said during the campaign; I said when he called to congratulate me on being elected; I said, subsequent to that, this last conversation, that if it turned out that he was engaged in the activities that he’d been accused of in cybersecurity and SolarWinds and interfering in our elections that I would respond in kind. I urged him to respond appropriately, not to exceed it, because we can move as well. My hope and expectation is we’ll be able to work out a modus vivendi. And — but it’s important that we have direct talks and that we continue to be in contact with one another. Thank you. Q Pardon me? Q Why not — on Nord Stream, why didn’t you keep going with the sanct- — sanctions on Nord Stream 2, Mr. President? Nord Stream 2 is a complicated issue affecting our allies in Europe. I’ve been opposed to Nord Stream 2 for a long time, from the beginning, when I was even — when I was out of office and even before office, when we — before I left office as Vice President. But that still is an issue that is in play. Thank you very much. 5:03 P.M. EDT
Good afternoon. I’m speaking to you today from the Roosevelt — the Treaty Room in the White House. The same spot where, on October of 2001, President George W. Bush informed our nation that the United States military had begun strikes on terrorist training camps in Afghanistan. It was just weeks — just weeks after the terrorist attack on our nation that killed 2,977 innocent souls; that turned Lower Manhattan into a disaster area, destroyed parts of the Pentagon, and made hallowed ground of a field in Shanksville, Pennsylvania, and sparked an American promise that we would “never forget.” We went to Afghanistan in 2001 to root out al Qaeda, to prevent future terrorist attacks against the United States planned from Afghanistan. Our objective was clear. The cause was just. Our NATO Allies and partners rallied beside us. And I supported that military action, along with overwhelming majority of the members of Congress. More than seven years later, in 2008, weeks before we swore the oath of office — President Obama and I were about to swear — President Obama asked me to travel to Afghanistan and report back on the state of the war in Afghanistan. I flew to Afghanistan, to the Kunar Valley — a rugged, mountainous region on the border with Pakistan. What I saw on that trip reinforced my conviction that only the Afghans have the right and responsibility to lead their country, and that more and endless American military force could not create or sustain a durable Afghan government. I believed that our presence in Afghanistan should be focused on the reason we went in the first place: to ensure Afghanistan would not be used as a base from which to attack our homeland again. We did that. We accomplished that objective. I said, among — with others, we’d follow Osama bin Laden to the gates of hell if need be. That’s exactly what we did, and we got him. It took us close to 10 years to put President Obama’s commitment to — into form. And that’s exactly what happened; Osama bin Laden was gone. That was 10 years ago. Think about that. We delivered justice to bin Laden a decade ago, and we’ve stayed in Afghanistan for a decade since. Since then, our reasons for remaining in Afghanistan are becoming increasingly unclear, even as the terrorist threat that we went to fight evolved. Over the past 20 years, the threat has become more dispersed, metastasizing around the globe: al-Shabaab in Somalia; al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula; al-Nusra in Syria; ISIS attempting to create a califit in Syria and Iraq, and establishing affiliates in multiple countries in Africa and Asia. With the terror threat now in many places, keeping thousands of troops grounded and concentrated in just one country at a cost of billions each year makes little sense to me and to our leaders. We cannot continue the cycle of extending or expanding our military presence in Afghanistan, hoping to create ideal conditions for the withdrawal, and expecting a different result. I’m now the fourth United States President to preside over American troop presence in Afghanistan: two Republicans, two Democrats. I will not pass this responsibility on to a fifth. After consulting closely with our allies and partners, with our military leaders and intelligence personnel, with our diplomats and our development experts, with the Congress and the Vice President, as well as with Mr. Ghani and many others around the world, I have concluded that it’s time to end America’s longest war. It’s time for American troops to come home. When I came to office, I inherited a diplomatic agreement, duly negotiated between the government of the United States and the Taliban, that all U.S. forces would be out of Afghanistan by May 1, 2021, just three months after my inauguration. That’s what we inherited — that commitment. It is perhaps not what I would have negotiated myself, but it was an agreement made by the United States government, and that means something. So, in keeping with that agreement and with our national interests, the United States will begin our final withdrawal — begin it on May 1 of this year. We will not conduct a hasty rush to the exit. We’ll do it — we’ll do it responsibly, deliberately, and safely. And we will do it in full coordination with our allies and partners, who now have more forces in Afghanistan than we do. And the Taliban should know that if they attack us as we draw down, we will defend ourselves and our partners with all the tools at our disposal. Our allies and partners have stood beside us shoulder-to-shoulder in Afghanistan for almost 20 years, and we’re deeply grateful for the contributions they have made to our shared mission and for the sacrifices they have borne. The plan has long been “in together, out together.” U.S. troops, as well as forces deployed by our NATO Allies and operational partners, will be out of Afghanistan before we mark the 20th anniversary of that heinous attack on September 11th. But — but we’ll not take our eye off the terrorist threat. We’ll reorganize our counterterrorism capabilities and the substantial assets in the region to prevent reemergence of terrorists — of the threat to our homeland from over the horizon. We’ll hold the Taliban accountable for its commitment not to allow any terrorists to threaten the United States or its allies from Afghan soil. The Afghan government has made that commitment to us as well. And we’ll focus our full attention on the threat we face today. At my direction, my team is refining our national strategy to monitor and disrupt significant terrorist threats not only in Afghanistan, but anywhere they may arise — and they’re in Africa, Europe, the Middle East, and elsewhere. I spoke yesterday with President Bush to inform him of my decision. While he and I have had many disagreements over policies throughout the years, we’re absolutely united in our respect and support for the valor, courage, and integrity of the women and men of the United States Armed Forces who served. I’m immensely grateful for the bravery and backbone that they have shown through nearly two decades of combat deployments. We as a nation are forever indebted to them and to their families. You all know that less than 1 percent of Americans serve in our armed forces. The remaining 99 percent of them — we owe them. We owe them. They have never backed down from a single mission that we’ve asked of them. I’ve witnessed their bravery firsthand during my visits to Afghanistan. They’ve never wavered in their resolve. They’ve paid a tremendous price on our behalf. And they have the thanks of a grateful nation. While we will not stay involved in Afghanistan militarily, our diplomatic and humanitarian work will continue. We’ll continue to support the government of Afghanistan. We will keep providing assistance to the Afghan National Defenses and Security Forces. And along with our partners, we have trained and equipped a standing force of over 300,000 Afghan personnel today and hundreds of thousands over the past two decades. And they’ll continue to fight valiantly, on behalf of the Afghans, at great cost. They’ll support peace talks, as we will support peace talks between the government of Afghanistan and the Taliban, facilitated by the United Nations. And we’ll continue to support the rights of Afghan women and girls by maintaining significant humanitarian and development assistance. And we’ll ask other countries — other countries in the region — to do more to support Afghanistan, especially Pakistan, as well as Russia, China, India, and Turkey. They all have a significant stake in the stable future for Afghanistan. And over the next few months, we will also determine what a continued U.S. diplomatic presence in Afghanistan will look like, including how we’ll ensure the security of our diplomats. Look, I know there are many who will loudly insist that diplomacy cannot succeed without a robust U.S. military presence to stand as leverage. We gave that argument a decade. It’s never proved effective — not when we had 98,000 troops in Afghanistan, and not when we were down to a few thousand. Our diplomacy does not hinge on having boots in harm’s way — U.S. boots on the ground. We have to change that thinking. American troops shouldn’t be used as a bargaining chip between warring parties in other countries. You know, that’s nothing more than a recipe for keeping American troops in Afghanistan indefinitely. I also know there are many who will argue that we should stay — stay fighting in Afghanistan because withdrawal would damage America’s credibility and weaken America’s influence in the world. I believe the exact opposite is true. We went to Afghanistan because of a horrific attack that happened 20 years ago. That cannot explain why we should remain there in 2021. Rather than return to war with the Taliban, we have to focus on the challenges that are in front of us. We have to track and disrupt terrorist networks and operations that spread far beyond Afghanistan since 9/11. We have to shore up American competitiveness to meet the stiff competition we’re facing from an increasingly assertive China. We have to strengthen our alliances and work with like-minded partners to ensure that the rules of international norms that govern cyber threats and emerging technologies that will shape our future are grounded in our democratic values — values — not those of the autocrats. We have to defeat this pandemic and strengthen the global health system to prepare for the next one, because there will be another pandemic. You know, we’ll be much more formidable to our adversaries and competitors over the long term if we fight the battles for the next 20 years, not the last 20. And finally, the main argument for staying longer is what each of my three predecessors have grappled with: No one wants to say that we should be in Afghanistan forever, but they insist now is not the right moment to leave. In 2014, NATO issued a declaration affirming that Afghan Security Forces would, from that point on, have full responsibility for their country’s security by the end of that year. That was seven years ago. So when will it be the right moment to leave? One more year, two more years, ten more years? Ten, twenty, thirty billion dollars more above the trillion we’ve already spent? “Not now” — that’s how we got here. And in this moment, there’s a significant downside risk to staying beyond May 1st without a clear timetable for departure. If we instead pursue the approach where America — U.S. exit is tied to conditions on the ground, we have to have clear answers to the following questions: Just what conditions require to — be required to allow us to depart? By what means and how long would it take to achieve them, if they could be achieved at all? And at what additional cost in lives and treasure? I’m not hearing any good answers to these questions. And if you can’t answer them, in my view, we should not stay. The fact is that, later today, I’m going to visit Arlington National Cemetery, Section 60, and that sacred memorial to American sacrifice. Section sisty — Section 60 is where our recent war dead are buried, including many of the women and men who died fighting in Afghanistan and Iraq. There’s no — there’s no comforting distance in history in Section 60. The grief is raw. It’s a visceral reminder of the living cost of war. For the past 12 years, ever since I became Vice President, I’ve carried with me a card that reminds me of the exact number of American troops killed in Iraq and Afghanistan. That exact number, not an approximation or rounded-off number — because every one of those dead are sacred human beings who left behind entire families. An exact accounting of every single solitary one needs to be had. As of the day — today, there are two hundred and forty- — 2,488 U.S. troops and personnel who have died in Operation Enduring Freedom and Operation Freedom’s Sentinel — our Afghanistan conflicts. 20,722 have been wounded. I’m the first President in 40 years who knows what it means to have a child serving in a warzone. And throughout this process, my North Star has been remembering what it was like when my late son, Beau, was deployed to Iraq — how proud he was to serve his country; how insistent he was to deploy with his unit; and the impact it had on him and all of us at home. We already have service members doing their duty in Afghanistan today whose parents served in the same war. We have service members who were not yet born when our nation was attacked on 9/11. War in Afghanistan was never meant to be a multi-generational undertaking. We were attacked. We went to war with clear goals. We achieved those objectives. Bin Laden is dead, and al Qaeda is degraded in Iraq — in Afghanistan. And it’s time to end the forever war. Thank you all for listening. May God protect our troops. May God bless all those families who lost someone in this endeavor. 2:45 P.M. EDT
Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And it’s great to be with Angela and Emmanuel. We just spent part of — from Washington’s perspective — the morning together. But I want to say hello to everyone and thanks, you — at the Munich Conference for hosting this special session. For decades, as you pointed out, I’ve participated in the Munich Security Conference — as a U.S. senator, joining my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to affirm the importance of the transatlantic partnership; three times as the Vice President of the United States, including delivering the first international foreign policy address of the Obama-Biden administration in the first months we were in office. And two years ago, as you pointed out, when I last spoke at Munich, I was a private citizen; I was a professor, not an elected official. But I said at that time, “We will be back.” And I’m a man of my word. America is back. I speak today as President of the United States at the very start of my administration, and I’m sending a clear message to the world: America is back. The transatlantic alliance is back. And we are not looking backward; we are looking forward, together. It comes down to this: The transatlantic alliance is a strong foundation — the strong foundation — on which our collective security and our shared prosperity are built. The partnership between Europe and the United States, in my view, is and must remain the cornerstone of all that we hope to accomplish in the 21st century, just as we did in the 20th century. The challenges we face today are different. We’re at an inflection point. When I spoke to you as a senator and as even as Vice President, the global dynamics have shifted. New crises demand our attention. And we cannot focus only on the competition among countries that threaten to divide the world, or only on global challenges that threaten to sink us all together if we fail to cooperate. We must do both, working in lockstep with our allies and partners. So let me erase any lingering doubt: The United States will work closely with our European Union partners and the capitals across the continent — from Rome to Riga — to meet the range of shared challenges we face. We continue to support the goal of a Europe whole and free and at peace. The United States is fully committed to our NATO Alliance, and I welcome Europe’s growing investment in the military capabilities that enable our shared defense. You know, to me and to the United States, and to us, we’ll keep article — we’ll keep faith with Article 5. It’s a guarantee. An attack on one is an attack on all. That is our unshakable vow. And the only time Article 5 has been invoked was after the United States was attacked on 9/11. You, our allies, joined us to fight al Qaeda, and the United States committed to consulting closely with our NATO Allies and partners on the way forward in Afghanistan. My administration strongly supports the diplomatic proc- — process that’s underway and to bring an end to this war that is closing out 20 years. We remain committed to ensuring that Afghanistan never again provides a base for terrorist attacks against the United States and our partners and our interests. Our European partners have also stood with us to counter ISIS. Just this week, NATO Defense Ministers endorsed a significantly expanded training and advisory mission in Iraq, which will be vital to the ongoing fight against ISIS. We cannot allow ISIS to reopen and regroup and threaten people in the Middle East, in Europe, in the United States, and elsewhere. And while the United States is undergoing a thorough review of our own force posture around the world, I’ve ordered the halting of withdrawal of American troops from Germany. I’m also lifting the cap imposed by the previous administration on the number of U.S. forces able to be based in Germany. I know — I know the past few years have strained and tested our transatlantic relationship, but the United States is determined — determined to reengage with Europe, to consult with you, to earn back our position of trusted leadership. Earlier today, as was referenced, I participated in the first meeting of the G7 leaders, where I spoke about the dire need to coordinate multilateral action to address COVID-19, the global economic crisis, and the accelerating climate crisis, and so much else. Achieving these goals is going to depend on a core strategic proposition, and that is: The United States must renew America’s enduring advantages so that we can meet today’s challenges from a position of strength. That means building back better our economic foundations; reclaiming our place in international institutions; lifting up our values at home, and speaking out to defend them around the world; modernizing our military capabilities while leading with diplomacy; revitalizing America’s network of alliances and partnerships that have made the world safer for all people. You know, I hope our fellow democracies are going to join us in this vital work. Our partnerships have endured and grown through the years because they are rooted in the richness of our shared democratic values. They’re not transactional. They’re not extractive. They’re built on a vision of a future where every voice matters, where the rights of all are protected and the rule of law is upheld. None of this has fully succeeded in this — none of us has fully succeeded in this division . We continue to work toward it. And in so many places, including in Europe and the United States, democratic progress is under assault. I have known for — I’ve known many of you for a long, long time, and you know that I speak my mind, so let me be straightforward with you all: We are in the midst of a fundamental debate about the future and direction of our world. We’re at an inflection point between those who argue that, given all the challenges we face — from the fourth industrial revolution to a global pandemic — that autocracy is the best way forward, they argue, and those who understand that democracy is essential — essential to meeting those challenges. Historians are going to examine and write about this moment as an inflection point, as I said. And I believe that — every ounce of my being — that democracy will and must prevail. We must demonstrate that democracies can still deliver for our people in this changed world. That, in my view, is our galvanizing mission. Democracy doesn’t happen by accident. We have to defend it, fight for it, strengthen it, renew it. We have to prove that our model isn’t a relic of our history; it’s the single best way to revitalize the promise of our future. And if we work together with our democratic partners, with strength and confidence, I know that we’ll meet every challenge and outpace every challenger. You know, we must prepare together for a long-term strategic competition with China. How the United States, Europe, and Asia work together to secure the peace and defend our shared values and advance our prosperity across the Pacific will be among the most consequential efforts we undertake. Competition with China is going to be stiff. That’s what I expect, and that’s what I welcome, because I believe in the global system Europe and the United States, together with our allies in the Indo-Pacific, worked so hard to build over the last 70 years. We can own the race for the future. But to do so, we have to be clear-eyed about the historic investments and partnerships that this will require. We have to protect — we have to protect for space for innovation, for intellectual property, and the creative genius that thrives with the free exchange of ideas in open, democratic societies. We have to ensure that the benefits of growth are shared broadly and equitably, not just by a few. We have to push back against the Chinese government’s economic abuses and coercion that undercut the foundations of the international economic system. Everyone — everyone — must play by the same rules. U.S. and European companies are required to publicly disclose corporate governance — to corporate governance structures and abide by rules to deter corruption and monopolistic practices. Chinese companies should be held to the same standard. We must shape the rules that will govern the advance of technology and the norms of behavior in cyberspace, artificial intelligence, biotechnology so that they are used to lift people up, not used to pin them down. We must stand up for the democratic values that make it possible for us to accomplish any of this, pushing back against those who would monopolize and normalize repression. You know, this is also — this is also how we’re going to be able to meet the threat from Russia. The Kremlin attacks our democracies and weaponizes corruption to try to undermine our system of governance. Russian leaders want people to think that our system is more corrupt or as corrupt as theirs. But the world knows that isn’t true, including Russians — Russia’s own citizens. Putin seeks to weaken European — the European project and our NATO Alliance. He wants to undermine the transatlantic unity and our resolve, because it’s so much easier for the Kremlin to bully and threaten individual states than it is to negotiate with a strong and closely united transatlantic community. That’s why — that’s why standing up for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine remains a vital concern for Europe and the United States. That’s why addressing recklessness — Russian recklessness and hacking into computer networks, in the United States and across Europe and the world, has become critical to protecting our collective security. The challenges with Russia may be different than the ones with China, but they’re just as real. And it’s not about pitting East against West. It’s not about we want a conflict. We want a future where all nations are able to freely determine their own path without a threat of violence or coercion. We cannot and must not return to the reflective opposition and rigid blocs of the Cold War. Competition must not lock out cooperation on issues that affect us all. For example, we must cooperate if we’re going to defeat COVID-19 everywhere. My first presidential national security memorandum focused on surging health and humanitarian responses to defeat COVID-19 and to better prevent and prepare for the next pandemic. Today, I’m announcing that the United States is making a $2 billion pledge to COVAX, with the promise of an additional $2 billion to urge others to step up as well. Yet, even as we fight to get out of the teeth of this pandemic, the resurgence of Ebola in Africa is a stark reminder that we must simultaneously work to finally finance health security; strengthen global health systems; and create early warning systems to prevent, detect, and respond to future biological threats, because they will keep coming. We have to work together to strengthen and reform the World Health Organization. We need a U.N. system focused on biological threats that can move quickly to trigger action. Similarly, we can no longer delay or do the bare minimum to address climate change. This is a global, existential crisis, and we’ll all suffer — we’ll all suffer the consequences if we fail. We have to rapidly accelerate our commitments to aggressively curb our emissions and to hold one another accountable for meeting our goals and increasing our ambitions. That’s why, as President, I immediately rejoined the Paris Agreement, and as of today, the United States is officially once again a party to the Paris Agreement, which we helped put together. On Earth Day, I will host a leaders summit to help drive more ambitious actions among top emitters, including domestic climate action here in the United States. I am grateful — I’m grateful for Europe’s continued leadership on climate issues over the last four years. Together, we need to invest in the technological innovations that are going to power our clean energy futures and enable us to build clean energy solutions to global markets. The threat of nuclear proliferation also continues to require careful diplomacy and cooperation among us. We need transparency and communication to minimize the risk of strategic misunderstanding or mistakes. That’s why the United States and Russia, notwithstanding other competition, extended the New START Treaty for an additional four years once I came — I was sworn in. That’s why we have said we’re prepared to reengage in negotiations with the P5+1 on Iran’s nuclear program. We must also address Iran’s destabilizing activities across the Middle East, and we’re going to work in close cooperation with our European and other partners as we proceed. We’ll also work together to lock down fissile and radiological material to prevent terrorist groups from acquiring or using them. Look, the range of challenges Europe and the United States must take on together is broad and complex. And I’m eager to hear — I’m eager to hear — I’m eager to hear next from my good friends and outstanding leaders, Chancellor Merkel, about her thoughts on the way forward together. So let me conclude with this: We cannot allow self-doubt to hinder our ability to engage each other or the larger world. The last four years have been hard. But Europe and the United States have to lead with confidence once more, with faith in our capacities, a commitment to our own renewal, with trust in one another and the ability of Europe and the United States to meet any challenge to secure our futures together. I know we can do this. We’ve done it before. Just yesterday — after a seven-month, 300-million mile journey — NASA successfully landed the Perseverance Rover on Mars. It’s on a mission of exploration, with elements contributed by our European partners to seek evidence of the possibility of life beyond our planet and the mysteries of the universe. Over the next few years — “Percy” is call — but Perseverance will range and collect samples from the Red Planet and pile them up so another mission and rover, envisioned as a joint effort between NASA and the European Space Agency, will retrieve this trove of scientific wonders and bring it home to all of us. That’s what we can do together. If our unbound capacity to carry us to Mars and back don’t tell us anything else, they tell us we can meet any challenge we can face on Earth. We have everything we need. And I want you to know the United States will do — we’ll do our part. We’ll stand with you. We’ll fight for our shared values. We’ll meet the challenges of this new moment in history. America is back. So let’s get together and demonstrate to our great, great grandchildren, when they read about us, that democracy — democracy — democracy functions and works, and together, there is nothing we can’t do. So let’s get working. Thank you all very much. Thank you, folks. 