Good afternoon, gentlemen, I am delighted to welcome you to the ceremony for presenting letters of credence. Despite the well-known and necessary restrictions associated with the coronavirus pandemic, we considered it important to hold this event in the Kremlin, as usual. I wanted to congratulate you personally on the official start of your work, your diplomatic mission in Russia and to wish you every success and fruitful work to develop cooperation between the countries you represent and the Russian Federation. Gentlemen, You can be sure that all your constructive undertakings and initiatives will always meet the most favourable response, support and assistance from government bodies, as well as from the business community and the general public in our country. Colleagues, This year has been very difficult and unpredictable for all of us. As I said, the world is facing the coronavirus pandemic. This required the adoption of extraordinary measures both in Russia and in all your counties. I am convinced that in the face of such an unprecedented challenge, the international community has no alternative but to join efforts. After all,
Colleagues, The scope of problems humanity has faced in 2020 are truly unprecedented. The coronavirus pandemic, global lockdown and frozen economic activity have launched a systemic economic crisis the world probably has not known since the Great Depression. The growth of national economies has been severely undermined. The pandemic claimed dozens, hundreds of thousands of lives while millions of people have lost their jobs and incomes. The main risk, obviously, even despite some positive signals,
Mr Chairman, colleagues, First of all, I would like to join the positive assessments of the work done by Malaysia this year as the APEC chairman. Thank you, Mr Chairman. See also 2020 Kuala Lumpur Declaration November 20, 2020 APEC Putrajaya Vision 2040 November 20, 2020 Importantly, despite the obvious difficulties caused by the spread of the coronavirus, APEC cooperation has been making steady headway. The intensive and substantive agenda that we are discussing at today’s summit attests to that. It goes without saying that our priority is to pool efforts in countering the coronavirus, as the Chairman has just said. Russia has much to offer our partners and friends. We have amassed solid scientific and, already, clinical experience in this area. I
The most important achievement was stopping the bloodshed. I have already said that according to official figures alone, over 4,000 people have died. I think that in reality the figures are higher. Tens of thousands are wounded and mutilated. Look, this is not a movie. This is a tragedy that has befallen real people, real families. Therefore, stopping the bloodshed is the main result. However, to understand what is happening we will still have to go back into history, literally in a few words. I have to recall that it all started in the already remote year of 1988, when ethnic clashes took place in the Azerbaijani city of Sumgayit. Armenian civilians fell victim to these events, and later it spread to Nagorno-Karabakh. And since the Soviet Union’s leaders did not react duly to these events… Yes, there is this problem, since Karabakh’s final status has not been settled. We have agreed to maintain the status quo. What happens next will be decided eventually by the future leaders and the future participants in this process. I think if proper conditions are created for normal life and relations between Armenia and Azerbaijan, between people in everyday life, especially in the conflict zone, are restored, it will create an environment for determining Karabakh’s status. With regard to recognising or not recognising Karabakh as an independent state, there may be different approaches, but this undoubtedly was a significant factor, including in the course of the bloody conflict that I hope has ended. Because the very fact of the non-recognition of Karabakh, including by Armenia, has left a deep imprint on the course of events and the way it is perceived. To put it bluntly, after the former Georgian leaders’ undoubtedly criminal moves, I mean the attacks against our peacekeepers in South Ossetia, Russia recognised the independence of South Ossetia and Abkhazia. We recognised the expression of the will of the people living in Crimea to reunite with Russia as just, and we met the people halfway, we did so openly. Some people may like it, others may not like it, but we did it in the interests of the people who live there and in the interests of Russia, and we are not ashamed to speak about it openly. This did not happen with Karabakh, and this, of course, has significantly influenced the developments there. This is a very important, a very sensitive issue. It is to ensure the safety of these people that the Russian peacekeeping force has been deployed there. As you can see, this document bears the signatures of the Prime Minister of Armenia, the President of Azerbaijan and me. All of us are aware that, given the gravity of the conflict, the wounds are still raw; they have not healed yet because there were very many casualties. As I have said, suffering has come to very many homes and families, both in Azerbaijan and in Armenia, as it is. Therefore, it will take time for the situation to settle down, so that people feel peace return to their hearts and souls, which is the main thing. Until then, we must ensure the real safety of the people, including refugees, who are returning to their homes on both sides. This is the mission of the Russian peacekeepers. The return to Azerbaijan of five and later two more districts, which were under control , was discussed for a very long time. Back in 2013, Russia, acting within the framework of the OSCE Minsk Group, formulated the conditions which could help launch a peace process, as we saw it. Incidentally, all parties of the Minsk process, the OSCE Minsk Group, including the co-chairs – Russia, France and the United States – accepted and supported our idea. The fundamental ideas of these proposals included the return of five districts controlled by Armenia at the first stage, to be followed by the return of two more districts, the creation of a corridor connecting Karabakh and Armenia in Azerbaijan’s Lachin district , and the recognition of the status quo in Karabakh without the formalisation of its final status. Indeed, I was telling our Armenian and Azerbaijani friends about this all the time; in my opinion, this would have resolved the matter. Unfortunately, we approached a final solution on this basis several times … By the way, there was a mandatory condition, namely, the return of refugees on both sides, including Azerbaijani refugees and also Armenian refugees, to their homes. This, too, is an unconditional requirement of international humanitarian law. To my mind, there would have been no war, if we had managed to accomplish this and reached agreement on this basis. This is true, and I remain absolutely convinced of this. Unfortunately, when we approached this, and it seemed that the matter would be resolved on this basis, obstacles emerged on both sides, and we were unable to overcome them. In the long run, the situation escalated into this bloody armed conflict that we just witnessed. Speaking of Shusha, the issue of its transfer was never raised. I repeat, the final status of Nagorno-Karabakh was to be resolved in the future, and everyone was expected to agree that its status quo as an unrecognised state would be retained. As for Shusha, this issue emerged during this conflict and this crisis. Indeed, this happened, but in what context? On October 19–20, I had a series of telephone conversations with President Aliyev and Prime Minister Pashinyan. At that time, the Armed Forces of Azerbaijan regained control over an insignificant part of Nagorno-Karabakh, namely, its southern section. On the whole, I managed to convince President Aliyev that it was possible to end hostilities, but the return of refugees, including to Shusha, was a mandatory condition on his part. Unexpectedly for me, the position of our Armenian partners was that they perceived this as something unacceptable. Prime Minister Pashinyan told me openly that he viewed this as a threat to the interests of Armenia and Nagorno-Karabakh. I do not quite understand the essence of this hypothetical threat, I mean, it was about the return of civilians to their homes, while the Armenian side was to have retained control over this section of Nagorno-Karabakh, including Shusha, and meaning that our peacekeepers were there, which we have agreed upon both with Armenia and Azerbaijan. At that point, the Prime Minister told me that his country could not agree to this, and that it would struggle and fight. Therefore, these accusations of treason against him are absolutely groundless. On the other hand, it remains unclear whether this was right or wrong. This is a different matter, but there was certainly no treason here. Regarding Turkey and its role, it is well known, as Azerbaijan has explained on numerous occasions. Turkey has never made any secret that Azerbaijan has its unilateral support. What can I tell you? These are the geopolitical ramifications of the breakdown of the Soviet Union. So far we have been discussing this topic in broad terms, but the developments we are currently witnessing are the specific manifestations of these consequences. What am I talking about here? Well, Azerbaijan is an independent sovereign state, and has every right to choose allies as it deems fit. Who can deny it this right? This is my first point. Second, as I have already mentioned, nobody has recognised Karabakh’s independence, even Armenia. What does this mean in terms of international law? It means that Azerbaijan sought to recover territories which Azerbaijan, and the entire international community, view as Azerbaijani territory. In this context, it had the right to choose any ally who could assist it in this endeavour. By the way, Turkey was originally a member of the OSCE Minsk Group for the Nagorno-Karabakh settlement. This means that it was part of the international institution, the international mechanism designed to facilitate the settlement. Turkey was not a co-chair though. There were three co- I think that assessing Turkey’s role is not part of my duties. Different people, different countries are assessed differently. As of now, there are different relations shaping up between this or that state and Turkey. We know the history, often dramatic history of relations between Turkey and Russia over the centuries. But do you know what I would like to focus on? The fact that many European nations had, let us say, an equally difficult and tragic history of relations with each other. France and Germany are a case in point. How many wars did they have with each other? Today they are jointly performing their NATO defence and security duties the way they think fit and are cooperating within the European Economic Community. They have overcome all this and stepped over it, and they are moving forward in the interests of their nations’ future. Why cannot we do the same here, in the Black Sea region? Certainly, our positions and points of view are not always the same, nor are they the same in all respects. Occasionally, they are diametrically opposite. Well, I don’t know about them resenting anything. There is nothing to resent or hold a grudge, where problems are dealt with at so high a level and in such a context, and where the issues at stake are the health, lives and fates of millions of people for a long time to come. Some totally different categories are taken into consideration here. I think that, in fact, this is a hyperbole, an exaggeration – that someone resents something. Regarding the role of France and the United States, I have a very high opinion of it because France and the United States have always been in the know, and they have always looked for various options to resolve this problem. As I have said, France and the United States mostly supported our proposal and worked together starting from 2013, when Russia suggested the basis for a future peace settlement format. The question is whether it was possible to take into account all the details of each partners’ opinions while drafting the final document that formed the basis of our trilateral agreement and the ceasefire agreement. However, this is a purely technical matter because it does not undermine the foundation of our common position regarding the peace process principles. Our statement is based completely on the trilateral position. Regarding the signing ceremony and the signatories themselves, please note that, as I have said, I had a series of telephone conversations with President Aliyev and Prime Minister Pashinyan on October 19–20. On the whole, I got the impression that we had almost reached agreements on ending hostilities. Unfortunately, this did not work out. The situation started developing in such a way that, on the whole, a predictable scenario took place. To be precise, the armed forces of the Republic of Azerbaijan established control over Shusha. To the best of my knowledge, Prime Minister Pashinyan made an absolutely fair and honest statement while addressing the people of Armenia yesterday. He said that the situation became critical for the Armenian side. It was a matter of hours. Stepanakert could have been taken and they could have continued to move on. To be honest, it was in Armenia’s interests to immediately cease hostilities. There was no time for holding additional consultations within the framework of the OSCE Minsk Group. This would have been simply unrealistic. We have to proceed from realities that have now taken shape on the battlefield. This is exactly what we did in the interests of the people of Azerbaijan and Armenia. I would like you to go back to what I said at the beginning. Armenia did not recognise the independence and sovereignty of Nagorno-Karabakh. In terms of international law, it meant that Nagorno-Karabakh and the adjoining districts were an inalienable part of the Republic of Azerbaijan. The CSTO treaty on collective security stipulates mutual assistance in the event of an aggression against the territory of CSTO member states. Nobody attempted to invade the territory of the Republic of Armenia. Therefore, we had no right to become directly involved in these hostilities. As for whether Armenia felt abandoned, I can assure you that the Russian Federation honoured all of its commitments within the framework of multilateral and bilateral obligations, including in the area of military technical cooperation, for which the Armenian authorities, including Prime Minister Pashinyan, expressed gratitude on numerous occasions, pointing out that Russia was fully complying with its obligations in keeping with its obligations in this sphere – sorry for using the same word. Incidentally, we proceeded from the assumption – you have mentioned the role of Turkey and unofficial armed groups – that a balance of forces should be respected even in the event of such a serious clash. I can assure you that Armenia did not feel abandoned or forgotten. And Russia did everything it could to prevent this. But whatever happened on the battlefront, happened, as Prime Minister Pashinyan openly and honestly said in his address to the nation, in his yesterday’s statement. That would be suicidal. We have relevant laws . This has also been regulated by relevant Presidential executive orders that were issued earlier. Officers and men performing peacekeeping functions, performing this mission, will be paid extras, but for performing their peacekeeping functions abroad rather than for being involved in combat operations. As for whether is sufficient or not, this matter should be addressed based on real requirements of everyday life, which arise, of course, every day. In principle, we proceed from the assumption that this is sufficient. But if something can and must be changed, this will only be done in coordination with all sides. As you may be aware, it was a difficult and I would say physically demanding process for all sides. This was taking place through trilateral consultations. Actually, I had to assume the role of intermediary, talking with one leader and then the other, listening to their demands and complaints about the text, making amendments to it and then holding consultations with the other party on the amendments’ acceptability to the other partners. But it was essentially an equal and equitable trilateral process. It all happened exactly on that day. Going back to what Prime Minister Pashinyan said, developments in the zone of hostilities took a turn that, frankly speaking, pushed Armenia up against the wall, so that it had to make a decision. Nevertheless, You should ask him about that. He simply did not consider this possible or necessary. Indeed, it was not the picture but the essence of our agreements that mattered. I do not understand what they mean. I do not see any peculiar features in our recent relations with Armenia, including after Pashinyan became prime minister. It is true that I have said about the current situation – but I also believed this several years ago – that a country in a difficult position, a country on the brink of hostilities must not allow internal political decisions, including when it comes to the system of power, to be made on the street. Nothing good can come from this. Nothing good can come from splitting society. We must consolidate society, not split it. Everyone is aware of my position. I have put it forth openly, and I do not feel embarrassed to say this openly today as well. However, this has not affected our relations. Yes, I had good relations with the previous leaders, but I never made secret of this. And this has not affected our interstate ties in any way, because, first, we developed trust-based and constructive personal relations. So I do not understand these suggestions. This is the first point. Second, and most important, apart from individuals enjoying a degree of trust in their own country, there are also the people. Speaking about the Armenian people, Russia and Armenians have centuries-old relations that go back to a distant past. Our relations are based on cultural and religious affinity, and there are many things in history that bind us together. This is even more important than relations between individuals. We remember this, we will never forget this, and this is what lies at the core of our interaction with Armenia.
Colleagues, friends, good afternoon. I am happy to see you all and to welcome you at this summit. Prime Minister Modi, Chairman Xi Jinping, President Ramaphosa, President Bolsonaro, It is a pleasure to have this meeting with you today within the BRICS framework. Before we get down to work, I would like to extend my birthday greetings to the President of the Republic of South Africa, Mr Ramaphosa, and wish him good health and every success in his endeavours in the interests of the friendly people of South Africa. Friends, The topic chosen for today’s meeting is quite broad and covers matters that deal with expanding the strategic partnership between the BRICS countries for the sake of global stability and security, as well as fostering innovative growth of our economies. As usual, we will also discuss current international and regional matters in view of the upcoming G20 Summit, which is to take place very soon, on November 21 and 22. We will compare notes on the key aspects of the G20 agenda. If there are no objections, colleagues, I would like to declare the 12 th BRICS Summit open. In keeping with the established procedure, allow me to be the first speaker at this meeting as the head of the state that has the current BRICS Chairmanship. Friends, I would like to once again sincerely welcome you all and express my satisfaction with the fact that during the Russian Chairmanship the BRICS countries have proactively expanded their cooperation with one another in all the key areas, including politics, the economy and humanitarian affairs, despite the special conditions caused by the coronavirus pandemic. We have held 130 events, including some 25 ministerial meetings. Unfortunately, but naturally in this situation, many of them had to take place online. Of course, our current priority is to coordinate collective BRICS measures to combat the pandemic, improve collaboration between our epidemiological services and protect the lives and health of our citizens. By the way, the subject of medical cooperation is nothing new for BRICS. In this context, we are in a better situation, relatively speaking, than some other countries. Let me remind you that the Ufa Declaration we adopted five years ago included an agreement to work together to prevent the spread of infectious diseases, including – I would like to emphasise this – novel coronaviruses. Pursuant to that agreement, the BRICS countries created an early warning system for infectious disease outbreaks, which we could use during the COVID-19 pandemic. The BRICS countries promptly responded to the disease outbreak and took practical measures to combat the pandemic. I would like to point out that the Russian Direct Investment Fund has signed agreements with our Indian and Brazilian partners on clinical tests of the Sputnik V vaccine and with pharmaceutical companies in China and India on the production of this vaccine not only for our own use, but also for third countries. I believe that this is very important. There are Russian vaccines, and they are effective and safe. The next task is to launch their large-scale production. This is not a problem, but it is a matter facing us now. Of course, it is very important to join forces for the large-scale manufacturing of this product for the general public. Incidentally, we have registered a second coronavirus vaccine in Russia, EpiVacCorona, and the third one is in the works. As I have already mentioned, we are ready to cooperate with our BRICS partners in their manufacturing and use. We also believe it important to accelerate the establishment of the BRICS Vaccine Research and Development Centre, as we agreed at the Johannesburg summit two years ago at the initiative of our South African friends. This year the pandemic forced each of our countries to take emergency measures to support national industries, finance and the social sphere, to revive their economies and return them to a trajectory of sustainable growth. This is the goal of the Strategy for BRICS Economic Partnership for the period until 2025, prepared for this summit. The New Development Bank is in great demand in the current situation. The Bank has reserved $10 billion to combat the pandemic, while its overall portfolio of investment projects now exceeds $20 billion. As many as 62 large projects are already being implemented in the BRICS countries. Incidentally, a regional branch of the bank will soon open in Moscow to implement lending programmes across the Eurasian space. I would also like to remind you that the BRICS countries have a special insurance tool in case of a Colleagues, this is what I would like to say in conclusion. We have all had special work schedules during this period, due to the current situation throughout this year. The old problems have not gone away though. They were difficult enough as it is, and they have also created additional challenges when it comes to dealing with the problems that we already had from many years ago, for entire decades. But the pooling of our efforts and our joint work to strengthen our alliance are aimed exactly at solving our problems in the most effective way possible. I would like to thank you for your assessment of our efforts to strengthen interaction within the framework of BRICS. At the same time, I would like to point out that without your support, without the support of Prime Minister Modi, President Xi Jinping, President Ramaphosa and President Bolsonaro, the Russian Government would not have been able to do what we managed to achieve amid the battle against the coronavirus infection. Overall, I believe that together we have done this. We expect to approve the Moscow Declaration prepared for this summit, which includes our common views on global developments and on the results of Russia’s chairmanship, and outlines the long-term guidelines for our cooperation within the framework of our organisation. In addition to this, we should approve two other documents, the BRICS Counter-Terrorism Strategy and a revised Strategy for BRICS Economic Partnership for the period up until 2025. Unless there are any objections, colleagues, I suggest that we consider these documents adopted.
Mr Chair, Colleagues, To begin with, I would like to thank Prime Minister of Vietnam Nguyen Xuan Phuc for hosting today’s event. East Asia summits have established themselves as a respected platform for discussing urgent issues affecting the entire Asia-Pacific Region, for a joint search for solutions to the most burning international problems. This is reflected in the Hanoi Declaration, the main document to be adopted following the summit. I agree with the key idea recorded in the document that our nations must work in concert on preserving peace and stability in Asia-Pacific, and build up cooperation on a wide range of political and economic challenges. It is also crucial that we act on the principles of respect for international law, account for each other’s interests and ensure indivisible security. Russia consistently advocates the establishment of the atmosphere of constructive cooperation and the enhancement of stability in the Asia-Pacific Region, including in the military political area where risks and threats have grown significantly after the termination of the INF Treaty upon the US initiative. As you know, in an attempt to stabilise the situation and thwart another round of the arms race, we announced a unilateral moratorium on the deployment of intermediate and shorter-range missiles in the APR and other regions, for as long as our US partners refrain from such actions. We are open for serious talks on the issue with all interested states. And, of course, close cooperation and interaction is needed to counter the gravest challenge faced by our region and the entire humankind – the coronavirus pandemic. I note that the Asia-Pacific Region has over 20 million coronavirus patients, which makes up almost half – 43.7 percent of the total number of infected people in the world. In this context Russia proposed drafting a joint statement to be approved by the leaders of the East Asia Summit participating nations on fighting the coronavirus. I really hope that this documents will be adopted today. I would also like to remind you that as early as 2016 Russia put forward an initiative of developing anti-infection cooperation in the APR. Its implementation allowed us to establish coordination between epidemiological agencies, arrange experience and information exchanges, and start training specialists in this field. An advanced training programme was launched for epidemiologists from the APR at a centre in Vladivostok, Russia. The operation of the ASEAN Centre of Military Medicine set up in Bangkok with Russia’s active assistance is also very useful. In May, the Centre hosted a command-staff exercise on fighting the pandemic which engaged defence representatives of the ASEAN nations and dialogue partners as well as World Health Organisation experts. The Russian side is open to further active joint work on the epidemiology track. We have much to offer in terms of scientific, clinical and production experience in fighting infections. As you probably know, the first coronavirus vaccine in the world, Sputnik V, was developed and is already being used in Russia. Recently we registered another vaccine – EpiVacCorona, and a third vaccine is coming. Dozens of countries have already expressed their interest in working together to organise the supplies and joint manufacturing of these vaccines. We strongly believe that citizens of all countries must have free access to vaccination. We are ready to provide our partners with Russian test systems, reagents for coronavirus diagnostics, including free of charge. As of now over a million tests have been provided to over 40 countries. Strengthening business and economic ties is a crucial task for all the nations of our shared region. We see that amid the pandemic in the Asia-Pacific space, mutual trade and investment exchanges are declining and recession has hit key industrial and financial sectors. Thus, Russia’s trade with the states present at the summit today fell by 12 percent in the first three quarters of the year. We expect that the statement on ensuring stable growth of the region’s economy to be adopted today, proposed by our Chinese partners, will boost the expansion of trade, investment and technological exchanges between our nations. I believe the build-up of economic cooperation in the Asia-Pacific Region will also be enhanced by further development of various integration projects. We are confident that regional and subregional associations, such as the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, the Eurasian Economic Union and the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation, can interact in the interests of the entire region by harmoniously and effectively complementing each other. This week’s summit of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation chaired by Russia adopted a joint statement by the leaders approving the idea of aligning integration efforts and Russia-proposed initiative on establishing the Greater Eurasian Partnership as a single, broad and open space of security and mutually beneficial economic and humanitarian cooperation. Another topic of crucial importance for all our nations is the digitisation of the economy and introduction of high-tech solutions to improve people’s lives. A great deal is being done in Russia to develop this area. We are seventh in the world today in terms of people’s involvement in the digital economy. A large number of services and support instruments for citizens have already been transferred into an online format. We welcome the important and timely initiative of smart cities proposed two years ago by Singapore chairmanship, which stipulated the application of advanced urban technologies in the APR nations. On our part, we could offer our own technological know-hows in this area. Colleagues, I would like to stress in conclusion that the future of the Asia-Pacific Region depends on how closely we will be able to unite in the face of the emerging challenges and threats, to show political will for cooperation in the interests of universal and sustainable development. Such an approach will undoubtedly yield results, and the Russian side is ready to make its contribution to joint work. Thank you for your attention. See also Ha Noi Declaration on the Fifteenth Anniversary of the East Asia Summit November 14, 2020
Today, on November 9, President of the Republic of Azerbaijan Ilham Aliyev and Prime Minister of the Republic of Armenia Nikol Pashinyan have signed a statement on a complete ceasefire and the termination of hostilities in the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict zone as of midnight, Moscow time, on November 10, 2020. The Republic of Azerbaijan and the Republic of Armenia will remain in their current positions. A peacekeeping force of the Russian Federation will be deployed on the contact line in Nagorno-Karabakh and along the corridor connecting it to the Republic of Armenia. The internally displaced persons and refugees will return to Nagorno-Karabakh and the adjacent regions under the supervision of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees. The parties will exchange prisoners of war, detainees and dead bodies. The blockade of the economic and transport ties in the region will be lifted. The oversight of transport communications will be ensured with the involvement of the agencies of the Border Guard Service of Russia. We proceed from the assumption that the agreements reached will create the necessary conditions for a lasting and full-scale settlement of the crisis over Nagorno-Karabakh on a fair basis and in the interests of the people of Armenia and Azerbaijan.
Events Statement by Vladimir Putin on additional steps to de-escalate the situation in Europe after the termination of the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty  October 26, 2020 12:05 Official translation The Russian Federation continues to believe that the INF Treaty was an important element of the architecture ensuring international security and strategic stability. The Treaty played the most particular role in maintaining predictability and restraint in the missile sphere in the European area. We consider the US withdrawal from the INF Treaty, that entailed its termination, as a serious mistake, which increases the risks of triggering a missile arms race, rise of confrontational potential and sliding into an uncontrolled escalation. Given persistent tensions between Russia and NATO, new threats to the European security are evident. Under these circumstances, active efforts are required to reduce the deficit of trust and to strengthen regional and global stability, as well as to lower the risks arising from misunderstandings and disagreements in the missile sphere. In this context, we reiterate our commitment to the moratorium earlier declared by the Russian Federation on the deployment of ground-based intermediate- and shorter-range missiles until US-manufactured missiles of similar classes appear in the respective regions. We also believe that our call to NATO countries to consider the possibility of declaring a reciprocal moratorium remains relevant. To facilitate the search for compromise political and diplomatic solutions, we are ready to take further steps based on the principles of equal and indivisible security and balanced consideration of the parties’ interests that are intended to minimize the negative consequences of the collapse of the INF Treaty. Building up on our earlier proposal to develop verification tools to support Russia’s initiative on mutual moratoria, we invite all parties concerned to consider specific options of reciprocal verification measures to remove existing concerns. In particular, these options could include verification measures with regard to the Aegis Ashore systems with Mk-41 launchers that are deployed at US and NATO bases in Europe, as well as 9M729 missiles at the sites of the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation in the Kaliningrad Region. The goal of such verification measures would be to confirm the absence of ground-based intermediate- and shorter-range missiles at the sites covered by the agreements and of arms, on specifications and classification of which the parties were unable to reach an agreement . Staying committed to its consistent stance that the 9M729 missile fully complies with the provisions of the former INF Treaty, the Russian Federation, nevertheless, is ready, in the spirit of good will, to continue not to deploy 9M729 missiles in European part of the territory of Russia, but only provided that NATO countries take reciprocal steps that preclude the deployment in Europe of the weapons earlier prohibited under the INF Treaty. We also call on all the parties concerned to search for patterns of maintaining stability and preventing missile crises “in a post-INF world” regarding the Asia-Pacific region. We are open to pursuing joint work in this direction. Geography United States Topics Foreign policy National security Publication status Published in sections: News , Transcripts Publication date: October 26, 2020, 12:05 Direct link: en.kremlin.ru/d/64270 Text version
It is a tragedy, and we are extremely concerned, because the people of Azerbaijan, Armenia and Nagorno-Karabakh are no strangers to us. Suffice it to say that some 2 million Azerbaijanis and over 2 million Armenians live in Russia, as far as we know. A large number of Russian citizens have close friends and even family members in both republics. It is indeed a huge tragedy. People are dying; there have been many casualties on both sides. We hope that the conflict will stop very soon. Even if it is not settled definitively, and it seems that this is a long way off, in any case, we are calling for a ceasefire, and I want to say this once again. This must be done as soon as possible. This is it, in general. As you know, Armenia is a member of the Collective Security Treaty Organisation, and so we have certain obligations towards it under the treaty. It is deeply regrettable that the hostilities continue, but they are not taking place in the Armenian territory. As for meeting our obligations under this treaty, Russia has always honoured and will continue to honour its commitments. You should know that I maintain regular contact with the Prime Minister of Armenia, and the Armenian leadership has not voiced any questions about the fulfilment of Russia’s allied commitments. Well, what can I say? That country held parliamentary elections just recently. By the way, the vote has been recognised as valid and democratic, not only by international observers, but also by representatives of the OSCE. But what happened there after that, of course, we have every reason to be concerned about it. We do hope that things will work out peacefully. We hope that a normal democratic political process will be restored. And, once again, this should happen as soon as possible. We keep in touch with all the participants, with all the parties to this conflict, and I would like to hope that after the political situation in Kyrgyzstan returns to normal, we will continue to implement all our plans with that country. I mean that Kyrgyzstan is a member of the Eurasian Economic Union, and we have a lot of joint work planned. We provide Kyrgyzstan with significant assistance such as loans, as well as help with its integration in the Eurasian Economic Union. There are issues such as customs, phytosanitary control, and things like that. We allocate considerable resources to ensure that Kyrgyzstan becomes a full-fledged member of this association. I repeat once again, we hope that all the internal political processes we are witnessing there today will end well and quickly and without any losses. No. Unfortunately, just like with several other Russian initiatives, there was no answer. I consider it a very important matter; at the same time, there are ongoing complaints about Russia’s hyperactivity, alleged hyperactivity, in the information sphere, interference in US elections, and other allegations, which are completely unfounded. I would like to say openly that the positions of presidential candidates in any country, including a great power such as the United States, must be assessed by the voters. In this particular case, by the people of the United States. We are the onlookers; we do not interfere in the process. What can I say about the exchange of tough statements and even direct accusations? It is proof of the standard of the political culture – or the lack thereof. However, as I have already said, we do not interfere. Everything that is happening in the United States is the result of the country’s internal political processes and problems. By the way, when anyone tries to humiliate or insult the incumbent head of state, in this case in the context you have mentioned, this actually enhances our prestige, because they are talking about our incredible influence and power. In a way, it could be said that they are playing into our hands, as the saying goes. But anyway, as I have already pointed out, this is none of our business. Let them settle scores with each other as they deem possible in the current context. Speaking of preferences, what can I say? We know that the incumbent President Trump has repeatedly expressed interest in the improvement of Russian-American relations. And we certainly appreciate that very much. From the very beginning, when he said so during the first iteration of the fight for the White House, we certainly heard him. But we must look objectively at what has been happening in recent years. Yes, indeed, we have achieved a lot on a bilateral basis. I must say this. Without having to list all the positive steps we have taken to build Russian-American relations, I can say that we have taken quite a few. But the intentions that President Trump spoke about earlier have not been fully realised. I believe that this is largely due to a certain bipartisan consensus on the need to contain Russia, to curb our country’s development. Moreover, as they say, this is a comprehensive position, which means containment on all tracks. This is my first point. And this, as we understand it, essentially limits the current administration. Furthermore, the greatest number of various kinds of restrictions and sanctions were introduced during the Trump presidency. Decisions on imposing new sanctions or expanding previous ones were made 46 times. The incumbent's administration withdrew from the INF treaty. That was a very drastic step. After 2002, when the Bush administration withdrew from the ABM treaty, that was the second major step. And I believe it is a big danger to international stability and security. Now the US has announced the beginning of the procedure for withdrawing from the Open Skies Treaty. We have good reason to be concerned about that, too. A number of our joint projects, modest, but viable, have not been implemented – the business council project, expert council, and so on. Nevertheless, again, bilateral trade has grown during the Trump presidency. And it has grown noticeably, despite all the restrictions, even despite the pandemic. The pandemic might have introduced some adjustments, but in general, there is an upward trend in mutual trade. And this is good, because there are jobs behind it, business activity and so on. Our joint work to stabilise the world energy market has been unfolding quite well, because the United States is definitely interested in maintaining a certain stability, in supporting its oil-producing companies, and so on. And we managed to achieve a really good cooperative result. So you know, there are upsides and downsides, of course. As for the Democratic candidate, what can I say? We can hear rather sharp anti-Russian rhetoric as well. Regrettably, we have become used to this. But some things are worth mentioning. First, the Democratic Party is traditionally closer to the so-called liberal values, closer to Social Democratic ideas, if compared to Europe. And it was from the Social Democratic environment that the Communist Party evolved. After all, I was a member of the Soviet Communist Party for nearly 20 years, or more precisely 18 years. I was a rank-and-file member, but it can be said that I believed in the party’s ideas. I still like many of these left-wing values. Equality and fraternity. What is bad about them? In fact, they are akin to Christian values. Yes, they are difficult to implement, but they are very attractive, nevertheless. In other words, this can be seen as an ideological basis for developing contacts with the Democratic representative. It is a fact that African Americans constitute a stable electorate, one of the electorates of the Democratic Party. It is a well-known fact, and there is nothing new about this. The Soviet Union also supported the African Americans’ movement for their legitimate rights. Back in the 1930s, Communist International leaders wrote that both black and white workers had a common enemy – imperialism and capitalism. They also wrote that these people could become the most effective group in the future revolutionary battle. So, this is something that can be seen, to a degree, as common values, if not a unifying agent for us. I am not afraid to say so. This is true. Do you remember – well, you are a young man, but people of my generation remember a time when huge portraits of Angela Davis, a member of the US Communist Party and an ardent fighter for the rights of African Americans, were on view around the Soviet Union. Therefore, we believe that this is something we can talk about and that can be used as the basis for mutual understanding but this is far by no means all there is. For example, candidate Biden has said openly that he was ready to extend the New START or to sign a new strategic offensive reductions treaty. This is a very serious element of our potential collaboration in the future. Therefore, I would like to repeat what I have said more than once before. We will work with any future president of the United State, the one whom the American people give their vote of confidence. I don't even know how to answer this. It is my birthday we are talking about, not a national holiday. I just think it would not be too modest of me to exaggerate the significance of this day, so to speak. I would say everyone should spend their birthday like this – with their friends, with their loved ones, regardless of their official position.
Mr Lukashenko, colleagues, friends, I am delighted to welcome the participants of the Seventh Forum of Russian and Belarusian Regions. Recently, on September 14, the President of Belarus and I spoke about the importance of cooperation between the regions of the two countries in Sochi. We agreed we should do more to encourage the implementation of mutually beneficial projects between the constituent entities of the Russian Federation and the regions of the Republic of Belarus, to more often organise mutual trips of their heads, and contacts between the respective political, business, public and academic communities. This means that the leaders of Russia and Belarus are interested in giving an additional impetus to the development of interregional ties. These contacts are among the most important components of truly fraternal, neighbourly, and truly allied relations between Russia and Belarus, relations based on the principles of equality and respect for each other's interests. I would like to note that Russia and Belarus are not only consistently deepening their multifaceted bilateral ties, but they are also committed to implementing the Treaty on the Creation of the Union State. Our countries are also purposefully involved in the Eurasian Economic Union Background information Eurasian Economic Union activities. We have joint defence construction projects; we cooperate in countering acute modern challenges and threats, also as part of the Collective Security Treaty Organisation Background information Collective Security Treaty Organisation . So today, considering the difficult situation the Republic of Belarus is going through, including the unprecedented external pressure that followed the presidential elections, I
Events Statement by President of Russia Vladimir Putin on a comprehensive program of measures for restoring the Russia – US cooperation in the field of international information security September 25, 2020 13:30 One of today’s major strategic challenges is the risk of a large-scale confrontation in the digital field. A special responsibility for its prevention lies on the key players in the field of ensuring international information security . In this regard, we would like to once again address the US with a suggestion to agree on a comprehensive program of practical measures to reboot our relations in the field of security in the use of information and communication technologies . First. To restore a regular full-scale bilateral interagency high-level dialogue on the key issues of ensuring IIS. Second. To maintain a continuous and effective functioning of the communication channels between competent agencies of our States through Nuclear Risk Reduction Centers, Computer Emergency Readiness Teams and high-level officials in charge of the issues of IIS within the bodies involved in ensuring national security, including that of information. Third. To jointly develop and conclude a bilateral intergovernmental agreement on preventing incidents in the information space similarly to the Soviet-American Agreement on the Prevention of Incidents On and Over the High Seas in force since 25 May 1972. Fourth. To exchange, in a mutually acceptable format, guarantees of non-intervention into internal affairs of each other, including into electoral processes, inter alia, by means of the ICTs and high-tech methods. We call on the US to greenlight the Russian-American professional expert dialogue on IIS without making it a hostage to our political disagreements. These measures are aimed at building up trust between our States, promoting security and prosperity of our peoples. They will significantly contribute to ensuring global peace in the information space. Addressing all countries, including the US, we suggest reaching global agreement on a political commitment of States on no-first-strike with the use of ICTs against each other. Geography United States Topics Foreign policy National security Publication status Published in sections: News , Transcripts Publication date: September 25, 2020, 13:30 Direct link: en.kremlin.ru/d/64086 Text version
"Mr. President, Mr. Secretary-General, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, This year, the international community celebrates two, without exaggeration, historic anniversaries: the 75th anniversary of the end
of the Second World War and establishment of the United Nations.
The importance of these two forever interlinked events
cannot be overemphasized. In 1945, Nazism was defeated, the ideology of aggression and hatred was crushed, and the experience and spirit of alliance,
as well as the awareness of the huge price that had been paid for peace and our
common Victory, helped construct the post-war world order. It was built on the ultimate foundation of the UN Charter that remains the main source of international law to this day.
I am convinced that this anniversary makes it
incumbent upon all of us to recall the timeless principles of inter-State
communication enshrined in the UN Charter and formulated by the founding
fathers of our universal Organization in the clearest and most unambiguous
terms. These principles include the equality of sovereign States, non-interference
with their domestic affairs, the right of peoples to determine their own
future, non-use of force or the threat of force, and political settlement of disputes.
Looking back at the past decades, one can say that
despite all difficulties of the Cold War period, major geopolitical shifts and all the intricacies of today's global politics, the UN has been ably fulfilling
its mission of protecting peace, promoting sustainable development of the peoples and continents and providing assistance in mitigating local crises.
This enormous potential and expertise of the UN is
relevant and serves as a solid basis for moving ahead. After all, just like any
other international organization or regional entity, the UN should not grow
stiff, but evolve in accordance with the dynamics of the 21st century and consistently adapt to the realia of the modern world that is indeed becoming
more complicated, multipolar and multidimensional.
The current changes certainly have an effect on the principal UN body, the Security Council, as well as on the debate concerning
the approaches to its reform. Our logic is that the Security Council should be
more inclusive of the interests of all countries, as well as the diversity of their positions, base its work on the principle of the broadest possible
consensus among States and, at the same time, continue to serve as the cornerstone of global governance, which cannot be achieved unless the permanent
members of the Security Council retain their veto power.
Such a right pertaining to the five nuclear powers,
the victors of the Second World War, remains indicative of the actual military
and political balance to this day. Most importantly, it is an essential and unique instrument that helps prevent unilateral actions that may result in a direct military confrontation between major States, and provides an opportunity
to seek compromise or at least avoid solutions that would be completely
unacceptable to others and act within the framework of international law, rather
than a vague, gray area of arbitrariness and illegitimacy.
As diplomatic practice shows, this instrument actually
works, unlike the infamous pre-war League of Nations with its endless
discussions, declarations without mechanisms for real action and with States
and peoples in need not having the right to assistance and protection.
Forgetting the lessons of history is short-sighted and extremely irresponsible, just like the politicized attempts to arbitrarily
interpret the causes, course and outcomes of the Second World War and twist the decisions of the conferences of the Allies and the Nuremberg Tribunal that are
based on speculation instead of facts.
It is not just vile and offending the memory of the fighters against Nazism. It is a direct and devastating blow to the very
foundation of the post-war world order, which is particularly dangerous in view
of the global stability facing serious challenges, the arms control system
breaking down, regional conflicts continuing unabated, and threats posed by terrorism, organized crime and drug trafficking intensifying.
We are also experiencing a whole new challenge of the coronavirus pandemic. This disease has directly affected millions of people and claimed the most important thing: the lives of hundreds of thousands of people.
Quarantines, border closures, numerous serious troubles to citizens of almost
all States constitute the present-day realia. It has been especially difficult
for elderly people who, due to the necessary restrictions, have not been able
to hug their loved ones, children and grandchildren for weeks or even months.
Experts are yet to fully assess the scale of the social and economic shock caused by the pandemic and all its long-term
consequences. However, it is already evident that it will take a really, really
long time to restore the global economy. Furthermore, even the proven
anti-crisis measures will not always work. We will need new innovative
solutions.
The only way to elaborate such solutions is to work
together, which is the most important task for both the UN and G20 States, as well as other leading inter-State organizations and integration associations
that are also going through tough times due to the pandemic impact and need
fundamentally new horizons and scope of development.
This very idea of a qualitative integrative growth,
the ”integration of integrations“, is the one behind Russia's
initiative to form a Greater Eurasian Partnership involving all Asian and European countries without exception. It is purely pragmatic and increasingly
relevant.
Besides, I would like to draw attention once again to Russia's proposal to create so-called ”green corridors“ free from
trade wars and sanctions, primarily for essential goods, food, medicine and personal protective equipment needed to fight the pandemic.
In general, freeing the world trade from barriers,
bans, restrictions and illegitimate sanctions would be of great help in revitalizing global growth and reducing unemployment. According to experts,
total or partial reduction in global employment in the second quarter of this
year equals to the loss of 400 million jobs, and we have to do our utmost to prevent this unemployment from growing long-term and ensure that people return
to work and can support their families instead of finding themselves imprisoned
by poverty with no prospects in life.
This is indeed a most acute global social problem, so
the politics has a mission now to pave the way for trade, joint projects and fair competition, rather than tie the hands of business and discourage business
initiative.
The pandemic has also pinpointed a series of ethical,
technological and humanitarian matters. For instance, advanced digital
technologies helped quickly reorganize education, trade and services, as well
as set up distant learning and online courses for people of different ages.
Artificial intelligence has assisted doctors in making more accurate and timely
diagnoses and finding the best treatment.
However, just like any other innovation, digital
technologies tend to spread uncontrollably and, just like conventional weapons,
can fall into the hands of various radicals and extremists not only in the regional conflict zones, but also in quite prosperous countries, thus
engendering enormous risks.
In this regard, matters related to cybersecurity and the use of advanced digital technology also deserve a most serious deliberation
within the UN. It is important to hear and appreciate the concerns of people
over the protection of their rights, such as the right to privacy, property and security, in the new era.
We must learn to use new technologies for the benefit
of humankind, seek for a right balance between encouraging the development of artificial intelligence and justifiable restrictions to limit it, and work
together towards a consensus in the field of regulation that would avert
potential threats in terms of both military and technological security, as well
as traditions, law, and morals of human communication.
I would like to point out that during the pandemic,
doctors, volunteers and citizens of various countries have been showing us
examples of mutual assistance and support, and such solidarity defies borders.
Many countries have also been helping each other selflessly and open-heartedly.
However, there have been cases showing the deficit of humanity and, if you
will, kindness in the relations at the official inter-State level.
We believe that the UN prestige could strengthen and enhance the role of the humanitarian or human component in multilateral and bilateral relations, namely in people-to-people and youth exchanges, cultural
ties, social and educational programs, as well as cooperation in sports,
science, technology, environment and health protection.
As to healthcare, just like in economy, we now need to remove, as many as possible, obstacles to partner relations. Our country has
been actively contributing to global and regional counter-COVID-19 efforts,
providing assistance to most affected states both bilaterally and within
multilateral formats.
In doing so, we first of all take into account the central coordinating role of the World Health Organization, which is part of the UN system. We believe it essential to qualitatively strengthen the WHO
capability. This work has already begun, and Russia is genuinely motivated to engage in it.
Building on the scientific, industrial and clinical
experience of its doctors Russia has promptly developed a range of test systems
and medicines to detect and treat the coronavirus, as well as registered the world’s first vaccine, “Sputnik-V.”
I would like to reiterate that we are completely open
to partner relations and willing to cooperate. In this context, we are
proposing to hold an online high-level conference shortly for countries
interested in cooperation in the development of anti-coronavirus vaccines.
We are ready to share experience and continue
cooperating with all States and international entities, including in supplying
the Russian vaccine which has proved reliable, safe, and effective, to other
countries. Russia is sure that all capacities of the global pharmaceutical
industry need to be employed so as to provide a free access to vaccination for the population of all states in the foreseeable future.
A dangerous virus can affect anyone. The coronavirus
has struck the staff of the United Nations, its headquarters and regional
structures just like everyone else. Russia is ready to provide the UN with all
the necessary qualified assistance; in particular, we are offering to provide
our vaccine, free of charge, for the voluntary vaccination of the staff of the UN and its offices. We have received requests from our UN colleagues in this
respect, and we will respond to those.
There are other critical items on today’s agenda. The issues of both environmental protection
and climate change should remain the focus of joint efforts.
The specialized multilateral UN conventions, treaties
and protocols have proved fully relevant. We are calling on all states to comply
with them in good faith, particularly in working to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement.
Dear colleagues! I would like to underline again, that
Russia will make every effort to contribute to peaceful political and diplomatic resolution of regional crises and conflicts, as well as to ensuring
strategic stability.
For all the disputes and differences, at times
misunderstanding and even distrust on the part of some colleagues, we will
consistently advance constructive, uniting initiatives, first of all in arms
control and strengthening the treaty regimes existing in this area. This
includes the prohibition of chemical, biological and toxin weapons.
The issue of primary importance that should and must
be promptly dealt with is, of course, the extension of the Russia-US Strategic
Arms Reduction Treaty, which will expire shortly, i.e. in February 2021. We are
engaged in negotiations with our US partners on the matter.
We also expect that mutual restraint would be
exercised with regard to deploying new missile systems. I would like to add
that as early as last year, Russia declared a moratorium on deploying
ground-launched medium and short-range missiles in Europe and other regions as long as the United States of America refrains from such actions. Unfortunately,
we have not received any reaction to our proposal from either our US partners
or their allies.
I believe that such reciprocal steps on specific
issues would provide a sound basis for launching a serious, profound dialogue
on the entire range of factors affecting strategic stability. It would aim at achieving comprehensive arrangements, shaping a solid foundation for the international security architecture that would build on prior experience in this field and in line with both the existing and future politico-military and technological realia.
In particular, Russia is putting forward an initiative
to sign a binding agreement between all the leading space powers that would
provide for the prohibition of the placement of weapons in outer space, threat
or use of force against outer space objects.
We are well aware of the fact that security issues as well as other problems discussed by this jubilee UN General Assembly call
for consolidated efforts on the basis of values that unite us, our shared memory of the lessons of history, and the spirit of alliance which guided the anti-Hitler coalition participants who
found it possible to raise above differences and ideological preferences for the sake of Victory and peace for all nations on the Earth.
In the current challenging environment, it is
important for all countries to show political will, wisdom and foresight. The permanent members of the UN Security Council – those powers that, for 75 years
now, have been bearing particular responsibility for international peace and security, the preservation of the foundations of international law – should
take the lead here.
Fully realizing this responsibility, Russia has
suggested convening a G5 summit. It would aim at reaffirming the key principles
of behavior in international affairs, elaborating ways to effectively address
today’s most burning issues. It is encouraging that our partners have supported
the initiative. We expect to hold such summit – in person – as soon as epidemiological situation makes it possible.
I would like to reiterate that in an interrelated,
interdependent world, amid the whirlpool of international developments, we need
to work together drawing on the principles and norms of international law
enshrined in the UN Charter. This is the only way for us to carry out the paramount mission of our Organization and provide a decent life for the present
and future generations.
I wish all the peoples of our planet peace and well-being.
Thank
you."
Good afternoon. That’s true. What is the second wave? We just talk about it in our everyday conversations or the media talks about the second wave. A bit, yes, this is true. In reality, this implies the development of an epidemiological situation. This is the terminology that the specialists suggest we use. Of course, it is obvious, if we consider that it is the holiday season, and there are many people on the beaches and crowds in bars and restaurants. Yes, of course. All this individualism and a reluctance to respect the interests of an overwhelming majority of society members leads to an outbreak and a relapse that we are witnessing in some countries. I hope that, first of all, this will not happen, and that Europe and other parts of the world will cope with the situation. On the whole, quite a few people in Russia have fallen ill, but we have one of the lowest mortality rates in the world. This is nothing but a manifestation of the national healthcare system’s readiness, our ability to mobilise and the timely nature of decisions to neutralise threats. I would like to once again express my admiration with the work of our medics. In general, it is a tradition of all people in Russia, including Russians and other ethnic groups, to marshal their resources at the time of trouble. This is what happened this time as well. However, we must also give credit to the federal and regional authorities, which summoned the necessary resources for dealing with the main goals. And then, as I have said more than once, we focused our attention on what matters the most – the life and health of our people. These common efforts and targeted and, as it turned out, very effective solutions have helped us to pass the peak of the epidemic and create conditions for further work. However, I never miss an opportunity to say publicly… Yes, exactly. So, when I have an opportunity to say so publicly I use it, and I am going to use our conversation now to address the people and to ask them to keep in mind that the virus is still among us, even though this may mean certain discomfort. We must keep this in mind and, of course, try to comply with the restrictive measures suggested by our specialists. This is really necessary now. The more disciplined we are, the sooner will we be able to resume normal life. We are conducting numerous research projects, including into the so-called herd or community immunity. It is clear now that herd immunity has already exceeded 25 percent in eight Russian regions. Overall, this means that if we tread carefully, preventing another outbreak of the disease, it… Well, yes, it can increase, and I hope that it will, some day… We are seeing a decrease now, as we all know. But a day will come when the situation will fully stabilise, because, first, we have created the necessary number of specialised hospital beds, the necessary reserve of PPE, as well as medicines for combating the coronavirus infection. It is a well-known fact that we have registered a vaccine. All right. In any case, we have created this arsenal, and we can make use of it. Research is ongoing, and our specialists have determined what should be done and how to act so that the disease takes the mildest possible course and ends without serious consequences. And in the future we will certainly make use of every element of the knowledge we have accumulated. No. We did everything that was required to register the vaccine, but with an asterisk, as we say. This means that this vaccine will have to undergo further research as part of a mass vaccination campaign. Therefore, we acted in strict compliance with the Russian law, and the Russian law is consistent with the international practices and regulations that apply in other countries. The vaccine went through pre-clinical and clinical trials, and was tested on animals as well as volunteers. Our specialists are absolutely confident today that this vaccine creates lasting immunity and people get antibodies, as was the case with my daughter. This vaccine is also harmless. Thank goodness, my daughter feels fine. She is an adult. She just said that she took this decision. She volunteered, and considering her profession she needed it. She works with many people, and in order to work normally, she needed a sense of security. As I mentioned, her temperature and was 38.4 the first day, and slightly above 37 the next day, that was it. After the second injection, 21 days later, she also had a slight temperature, but everything is fine. I just spoke with her by phone. She is well. Thank goodness, everything is fine. To reiterate, research will continue, but in this country, everything takes place within Russian law, which is quite in line with international practices. In September, we should have another vaccine. If the drug we are talking about has been proposed, researched and registered by the Gamaleya Institute, then… That’s right, Sputnik V. The second drug, as they have reported to me, will be ready in September. It is being developed by the well-known VEKTOR Institute in Novosibirsk. I am confident that the specialists at VEKTOR will make an excellent drug that will help people a lot. You should ask the specialists. I think that they will most likely compete, because they should not be inferior to each other in terms of safety and effectiveness. The entire global economy is facing the aftermath of this epidemic. If we recall 2008 and 2009… Yes, that crisis. The global GDP fell by 0.1 percent. This time, according to the IMF, the World Bank and other organisations, there will be about 5 percent. It is a huge difference. Many people are comparing this with the Great Depression of the 1930’s or even with the post-war events. In the United States, for example, it is 9 . The forecasts for this country are 8.5 , but our specialists believe the figure will be lower than that. Yes, in the environs of 5 or 6 percent. The United States had 9.5 in the first six months, and the eurozone had minus 15 percent. Some experts – we know this well – say that this results from the difference in the structure of our economies. Yes, to a certain degree, this seems to be so, but mostly this is the result of the Government’s decisions that are targeted and timely, something that is also of great importance, as I see it. Of course, there are some inevitable problems. I know that some companies that were hit hard are not on the list of those receiving state assistance. And, of course, the Government should think about this and make the appropriate timely decisions. On the whole, I repeat, support for small businesses and support for certain major sectors, including agriculture, the automotive industry, construction, etc, that employ hundreds of thousands and millions of people as part of co-production chains – all this was accomplished on time and yielded a positive effect. As you can see, our key macroeconomic indicators remain sufficiently stable. Despite predictions of major fluctuations, the current inflation rate is just 3.4 percent. According to experts, it will stay at 3.4–3.41 percent. It would be better if it cost more. Yes, of course, but our reserves are also increasing despite all difficulties. This creates an additional safety cushion, which is important. It is not a cure-all against all troubles, but it is important. This makes us feel confident that, if need be, we can finance our social obligations. All this means that, first of all, we believe that we have overcome all the main problems, and I hope that we will now start recovering gradually. On the whole, we do not differ much from other countries in this respect. I believe that this recovery will be guaranteed next year. Yes, of course. Of course. You know, I think that we have shown much more restraint and neutrality with respect to the events in Belarus than many other countries, both European and American ones, such as the United States. In my opinion, we have indeed been covering the developments in Belarus quite objectively, from every angle, showing both sides. We believe that it is up to the Belarusian society and people themselves to deal with this. Although, certainly, we care about what is happening there. This nation is very close to us and perhaps is the closest, both in terms of ethnic proximity, the language, the culture, the spiritual as well as other aspects. We have dozens or probably hundreds of thousands, if not millions, of direct family ties with Belarus and close industrial cooperation. Suffice it to say that, for example, Belarusian products account for more than 90 percent of the total agricultural imports on the Russian market. Belarusian exports. If we look at other industries – for example, agricultural equipment manufacturing – the figures are similar. Therefore, of course, we care about what is happening there. But it is still up to the Belarusians to deal with this situation. We most certainly hope that all the parties will have enough common sense to reach a solution in a peaceful way, without running to extremes. Of course, if the people take to the streets, it cannot be ignored. Everybody must listen to them and respond. By the way, the President of Belarus said that he is willing to consider conducting a constitutional reform, adopting a new Constitution, holding new parliamentary and presidential elections based on the new Constitution. But the effective Constitution must not be breached. Did you note that the Constitutional Court of Belarus issued a ruling, according to which it is absolutely unacceptable to establish supra-constitutional bodies which are not envisaged by the country’s basic law and which are trying to take over power. It is hard to disagree with this ruling. Well, now it is obvious. This was an operation by secret services. The people you mentioned were used without their knowledge in order to move them to Belarus. They received perfectly legal assignments. They were told that they must go to third countries, to Latin America and the Middle East, for absolutely legal work. But in fact they were dragged off to Belarus and presented as a potential attack force in order to destabilise the situation during the election campaign. This had nothing to do with reality. Let me repeat that these people were going to work in a third country. They were simply lured there, dragged across the border. By the way, our border guards did not let them out and they could not move in anywhere. But de facto they were brought in on fake documents. This was an operation of Ukrainian secret services in cooperation with their US colleagues. Now this is known for sure. Some participants in this event or observers, well-informed people do not even conceal this now. Go ahead. There is no need to hush up anything. Indeed, the Union Treaty, that is, the Treaty on the Union State, and the Collective Security Treaty include articles saying that all member states of these organisations, including the Union State, which consists of two states only – Russia and Belarus, are obliged to help each other protect their sovereignty, external borders and stability. This is exactly what it says. In this connection, we have certain obligations towards Belarus, and this is how Mr Lukashenko has formulated his question. He said that he would like us to provide assistance to him if this should become necessary. I replied that Russia would honour all its obligations. Mr Lukashenko has asked me to create a reserve group of law enforcement personnel, and I have done this. But we have also agreed that this group would not be used unless the situation becomes uncontrollable, when extremist elements – I would like to say this once again – when the extremist elements, using political slogans as a cover, overstep the mark and start plundering the country, burning vehicles, houses, banks, trying to seize administration buildings, and so on. During our conversation with Mr Lukashenko, we came to the conclusion that now it is not necessary, and I hope that it will never be necessary to use this reserve, which is why we are not using it. I would like to say once again that we proceed from the belief that all the current problems in Belarus will be settled peacefully, and if any violations are permitted by either side – the state authorities and the law enforcement personnel, or the protesters – if they exceed the framework of the law, the law will respond to this accordingly. The law must be equal for everyone. But speaking objectively, I believe that the Belarusian law enforcement agencies are exercising commendable self-control despite everything. Just take a look at what is happening in some other countries. You know what I think about this. Was it not awful when people died in some European countries nearly every day? Is it not awful when a defenceless person is shot in the back and there are his three children in his car? Have those who are putting the blame on Belarus and the Belarusian authorities, President Lukashenko, have these people condemned these acts? I have not heard anything about this. Why such discrimination? This makes me think that the issue is not the current events in Belarus, but that some forces would like to see something different happening there. They would like to influence these processes and to bring about the solutions that would suit their political interests. Therefore, I would like to say once again that the general situation is improving, by and large. And I hope that all the problems – and there are indeed problems, because otherwise the people would not have taken to the streets – that all these problems will be settled peacefully within the framework of the Constitution and the law.
Dear veterans, Mr Lukashenko, friends. Today we are paying tribute to everybody who fought here, on the battlefields near Rzhev, who selflessly defended our Fatherland and gave their lives for the Great Victory. Not so long ago, the battles near Rzhev were hardly ever mentioned in official history sources. Direct participants only offered few scarce words about those events. It was too hard to remember that terrible Rzhev Meat Grinder, as it is sometimes called. Fierce, exhausting and agonised fighting continued in this area for months. Soldiers fought for every single grove, elevation, for every square metre of land. It is impossible to think about the Red Army’s losses in those battles without pain. More than 1.3 million people were killed, injured or went missing. It is a horrifying, unthinkable number. The significance of that long and bloody battle for the Victory of the Soviet people over Nazism is huge. The Soviet Army finally made it clear that the enemy will not be able to turn around and advance the attack on Moscow again; nor will it be able to break and subjugate the people who stood up for their Motherland’s defence. Every time a soldier fell, another one rose up behind him. The unbelievable intensity of that battle exhausted the enemy, crushed and slowly destroyed the giant military machine of the Third Reich. Step by step, day after day, the battles near Rzhev brought closer the triumphant outcome of the Battle of Stalingrad and the long-awaited breaking of the Leningrad Siege, the liberation of Byelorussia, Ukraine and Baltic countries – and the final and critical change in the course of the entire Second World War. We will always remember the high price the Soviet people paid for the Victory, the brunt borne and repelled by the Red Army where representatives of all Soviet republics and ethnicities fought side by side. More than 8.5 million Red Army soldiers never returned home; they perished in battle, in captivity or died in hospitals – and this statistic is not yet final. The Rzhev Memorial is another symbol of our common memory, the symbol of our worship for the great and selfless heroic deed of the hero soldier, the liberator soldier, the winner soldier, the soldier who saved Europe and the entire world from Nazism. Time has no grip over this deed and it cannot and must not be forgotten or erased or besmirched by lies and falsifications. We will not let this happen. Lives destroyed by the war will always remain with us like an open wound. Like now, the valour and stamina of our fathers, grandfathers and great grandfathers as well as their endless love and loyalty to their Motherland will serve as an essential moral guidance for us. We have to be worthy of this highest moral standard in our deeds and activities today and protect and preserve the historical truth like a living thread that unites generations both in Russia and abroad. My warmest thanks to the search teams who return names to the fallen soldiers and a piece of family history to their families and descendants. These searches must continue here, on this long-suffering land. I would like to thank everyone who took part in establishing this memorial, the organisations of the Union State of Russia and Belarus as well as our people who gave donations for the creation of the memorial, the Russian Military and Historical Society and, of course, our talented designers. They all have done a wonderful job. Everyone who fought near Rzhev passed through inhuman ordeals, fought to the bitter end for more than a year and did everything they could for Victory. Our sacred duty is to respect and remember every hero. It was a matter of honour and conscience to immortalise their heroic deeds. My deepest gratitude to all the soldiers and commanders. Glory to the heroes of Rzhev, the soldiers of the Great Patriotic War and eternal memory to the fallen.
Dear friends, Liebe Freunde, Good afternoon. Grüß Gott. I would like to thank the Federal Chancellor of Austria, Sebastian Kurtz, for his proposal to address the Austrian people on the occasion of the 75 th anniversary of Victory over Nazism. In the spring of 1945, Soviet troops took Berlin by storm. It took them almost four years to get there through the inferno of the bloodiest war in human history. They did not need this war, they did not want it. It was imposed on the Soviet Union. The Nazis attacked treacherously and stealthily, thus putting an abrupt end to the peaceful and quiet life of our country and its multi-ethnic people. The Soviet people’s path to Victory was heroic and sacrificial. We bow low to their courage, determination and fortitude. They were able to overcome inhuman trials and defend their homeland. They determined the outcome of World War II, liberated Europe, and won the Victory that the entire world was waiting for. Of course, we will remember the contribution made to defeating Nazism by our allies in the anti-Hitler coalition and all those who fought in the anti-Nazi underground resistance, remember the millions of people, the elderly, women and children who were murdered by the Nazis, and we will remember the tragedy of the Holocaust. The Great Victory saved humanity. It paved the way to the revival of an independent and dynamically developing democratic Austria. Over 26,000 Soviet soldiers gave their lives for its liberation. The Austrian soil is home to more than 200 military burial sites. We are grateful to the Austrian government and people for their caring and respectful attitude to these memorials that are dear to us. The memory of the fallen, the events of the war, the defence of the truth about it and the honour of genuine heroes is not just our common duty. It is a matter of our conscience with regard to the entire generation of victors. They spared nothing so that we, their descendants, never know the tragedy of war. Today, we, too, must do our best to make sure that no one ever dares to unleash it again. This is our common responsibility to the future generations. In closing, I would like to wish the friendly nation of Austria prosperity, peace and well-being. And, of course, I wish you success in combatting our common new threat, the coronavirus. We are together in fighting this pandemic. It is vitally important that we support each other in these difficult times. Thank you for your attention. Vielen Dank für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit.
Your Majesty, colleagues, It appears to me that the current problems caused by the new coronavirus pandemic will result in far greater shocks than the financial crisis of 2008–2009, and the trade conflicts and sanctions are worsening the recession. From our point of view, the key risk lies in long-term unemployment which, regardless of the future scenario, will peak much higher than in 2009. Unemployment dynamics will also serve as a key efficiency indicator for our anti-crisis measures. The current crisis will inevitably take its toll on global development, and for the long term. Therefore, certainly, we cannot afford to act with an every-man-for-himself approach, our colleagues have said a lot about it already. I absolutely agree with that. I will start with the top-priority tasks in healthcare. First. As has been said, of course it is necessary to continue a regular exchange of credible information about the pandemic’s progress in our countries and about the actions being taken. It was also brought up that it is necessary to provide aid to the African countries. I believe that overall today, the World Health Organisation should channel its efforts to detecting hidden coronavirus epidemics in the countries that are not able to organise testing. Also, joint research by our countries could significantly expedite the development of vaccines and medications. Now, a few words about the economy. The Russian Government is allocating 1.2 percent of Russia’s GDP to fight this crisis. Russia’s Central Bank is providing approximately the same amount of support. But all of us, the Group of 20, need a common action plan to stabilise the situation, support our economies and restore trust across global markets. Of course, national budgets should play a key role in increasing global demand. However, due to the high volatility of global markets that we see every day, borrowing options are limited for many countries – and we must also take this into account. The situation is getting complicated. In this respect, it is very important, it is extremely important now to ensure access to financing for countries that are suffering from resource shortages, I mean especially countries that have been affected by the crisis and pandemic. In this regard, we could consider creating a special fund under the auspices of the IMF, financed primarily by the central banks that issue currencies included in the IMF basket, and then granting the right to any IMF member to borrow money from this fund in proportion to his share in the world economy at a zero rate for the long term. A lot has also been said about the need to ensure supply chains. This is certainly important. But it is equally important to create so-called green corridors for the duration of the crisis, free from trade wars and sanctions, for the mutual supply of medicines, food, equipment and technology. Ideally, we should impose a moratorium, a joint moratorium on restrictions on essentials, as well as on financial transactions for their procurement. And first of all, I am talking about countries that are suffering the most from this pandemic. In the end, this is a question of life and death of people, it is a purely humanitarian issue. We need to cleanse these issues from all kinds of political husk. When keeping the G20’s traditional cooperation between the ministries of finance, the central banks and Sherpas, we could strengthen our cooperation at the economic adviser level during this crisis. They have direct access to state leaders and can make decisions urgently, informally and quickly. And in conclusion, I would like to say a few words about global international organisations. Obviously, they lack mechanisms for automatic stabilisation in the event of a crisis. And so, it is necessary to efficiently and as quickly as possible, work through and resolve all the issues related to their reorganisation. Thank you for your attention. See also Extraordinary G20 Leaders’ Summit. Statement on COVID-19 March 26, 2020 Topics Foreign policy G20
He calls me Vladimir, I call him Donald. Yes… Well… It is difficult for me to say now. Indeed, I had fairly constructive relations with each of them. Did it or didn’t… I had good relations with Bush. What? No, it has nothing to do with ‘being at odds’. It's just that, when a person says that… Sorry? Yes. He already stated that the US is an exceptional nation, with special, exclusive rights to practically the entire the world, I cannot go along with that. God created us all equal and gave us equal rights. So, I think it is absolutely ungrounded to say that some people should have exclusive rights to anything. I would give it a three. Between a two and a three. More like a three though. Look… Look, we do cooperate on counter-terrorism. I’m serious… It was actually me who called Trump to thank the US for giving us the information. Yes. They had been looking into them for a long time. And after that, the FBI provided this information to the Federal Security Service. They work… I am not going to talk about it now, because this information is classified. They work globally. I'll whisper in your ear afterwards. They work globally, and so do we. But they were the ones who tracked this case down. That time, we did not. Our services track down a lot of them, thus preventing dozens of terrorist attacks, they catch and intercept them. Several dozen a year. That specific case was detected by the US. I would like to thank them a lot for sharing that information with us. Well, let’s see… Trade turnover used to be higher, it dropped to 20 from 28, still very low. But in the last two years, under Trump, trade turnover started to grow. In terms of security, a while ago we concluded an agreement with Obama, the New START was also signed when he was in office. Now it has not been extended. Just yet. So this raises a question. The US keeps imposing sanctions on Russia. Another question. Take Nord Stream 2, they imposed sanctions on it as well. The US has always been against the development of our economic relations with Europe, even in the 1960s, when we launched the construction, you remember, the gas-for-pipes deal. Thank God, now we produce large-diameter pipes ourselves, which is, by the way, another recent achievement of our white metallurgy and other sectors. 75 percent, and it is crucial, 75 percent of facilities in our manufacturing sector, as well as machinery and equipment, have been manufactured in recent years, in the last 10 to 15 years. This is quite an achievement. They have always been against it. Against Nord Stream 1 – they did oppose it, now they oppose Nord Stream 2 in the same manner. So why did they do it, what for? What was the reason – to ensure transit through Ukraine. Looks a bit strange too, doesn’t it? So they are wooing Ukraine and have introduced external control over it, but they want Ukraine to be sustained by our money as well. They don’t want to give Ukraine money themselves. They want Ukraine to receive something from us through transit fees. Ok, we agree, because following from the growth of gas consumption in Europe in general and in Ukraine in particular, we, too, will be interested in it and we will go on with gas transit. The volumes will be lower, but we will continue. However, the main motivation, the excuse for imposing sanctions against Nord Stream 2 was the need to ensure transit through Ukraine. We have signed a transit agreement with Ukraine. So, what is needed now? Sanctions against Nord Stream should be lifted. There are no grounds for imposing them. And if the sanctions remain, it will mean that there is only one motive – to ensure competitive advantages for their LNG, for their liquefied gas. They are securing a market for their products, exclusively in their own selfish interests and at the expense of European consumers. But if the price of a fossil fuel rises by 25 to 30 percent, the competitiveness of the German economy, as well as the European one, will be undermined. But it never existed. ‘Anymore!’ You’re talking now about something which never existed, as if it is something we have lost. Back in the day, de Gaulle spoke about a Europe from the Atlantic to the Urals. Then I extended that idea a little, Not at all. Now they repeat everything I said. For example, the German leaders. They almost repeat it word for word… They were mad at me at the time, angry with me, they said, why did you do that? No. Got angry because, well, it was a bit rude, at the wrong time; ‘why would you do that’. And what did I say? I said that it is inadmissible that one country, the United States, extends its jurisdiction beyond its national borders. Today, say, the German leadership says exactly that, that it is inadmissible that the United States imposes secondary sanctions, i.e. on companies, that have no relation to the United States, trying to prevent them from pursuing their national interests. Well, I don't see that. Who exactly started to distance themselves? They didn’t just distance themselves – they jumped aside. Through no fault of ours. They should thank Mikheil Nikolayevich for that. Not at all! He is running around, from square to square, taking to rooftops, like a tomcat. We had a lot of discussions with him on the subject when he was still president. I think Mikheil Saakashvili would recall that. I
Mr President, friends, ladies and gentlemen, Congratulations on the opening of the Year of Russia in Kyrgyzstan and the Year of Kyrgyzstan in Russia. This is a great occasion and a landmark event for our countries and peoples. The Russian Federation and the Kyrgyz Republic are strategic partners and allies, and are committed to consistently developing these relations in all spheres. Our two countries maintain intensive political ties, and are proactive in their political dialogue. President Jeenbekov and I have regular meetings, and our talks today were held in a traditionally business-like and constructive atmosphere. Let me note that Russia and Kyrgyzstan are working together to ensure regional stability, engage in military cooperation in a bilateral setting as well as within the Collective Security Treaty Organisation Background information Collective Security Treaty Organisation , and coordinate their positions in international organisations. We have established close cooperation on integration-related matters within the Eurasian Economic Union Background information Eurasian Economic Community . Major joint projects are underway in the mining sector, transport and high technology. Russia is Kyrgyzstan’s main energy supplier. Russian education institutions continue to train qualified professionals for the Kyrgyz economy. Let me emphasise Russia’s commitment to make every possible effort for further strengthening its diversified ties with Kyrgyzstan. We hope that holding the cross years of Russia and Kyrgyzstan contributes to these efforts. This is the first time our two countries undertake a project of this scale. Let me remind you that Mr Jeenbekov and I decided to hold the Year of Russia in Kyrgyzstan and the Year of Kyrgyzstan in Russia during the state visit to the Kyrgyz Republic in March 2019. In keeping with the instructions of the heads of state, ministries and agencies of the two countries, together with the business community, civil society and youth associations, have done a great deal to prepare these events. The programme of the cross years includes more than 200 events, to be held in Russia and Kyrgyzstan with a view to stepping up bilateral relations and promoting direct people-to-people ties between our two countries. In particular, the programme includes business conferences and missions to discuss ways of expanding mutual trade and investment, exploring new avenues for cooperation in manufacturing, agriculture, healthcare and other areas. There will be a forum of university rectors from Russia and Kyrgyzstan, a young leaders’ forum, and various research, academic and student workshops. Promoting cultural and humanitarian cooperation is another priority. The programme provides for tours by theatres and musical ensembles, fine art and photo exhibitions and film screenings. All this will undoubtedly help our people learn more about each other’s culture, history and traditions. The programme for the cross years includes a series of meetings between representatives of Russia’s and Kyrgyzstan’s regions. In September, Yekaterinburg will host the 9 th Russia-Kyrgyzstan Inter-Regional Conference. Of course, historical commemorations and patriotic events devoted to the 75 th anniversary of Victory in the Great Patriotic War will be high on the agenda. It is extremely important that Russia and Kyrgyzstan are doing a great deal to preserve and honour the memory of the heroic past that we share, of the courage and military feats of our fathers and grandfathers, who won us peace. We are looking forward to seeing Mr Jeenbekov and the Kyrgyz delegation at the May 9 anniversary celebrations in Moscow, and we hope that the Kyrgyz military will take part in the Parade on Red Square alongside representatives from a number of other countries. To conclude, I would like to wish every success to the organisers and participants in the Russia-Kyrgyzstan cross years. I strongly believe that the events to be held as part of this initiative will contribute to strengthening our friendly ties in all areas. Thank you for your attention.
"Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to welcome you in the Kremlin at this ceremony to present your credentials and to congratulate you on officially commencing your diplomatic activities here in Russia. You have an important and serious
mission: to promote the development of comprehensive relations between the countries you represent and Russia. We proceed from the fact that you will be
responsible for expanding our political dialogue and trade and economic ties as well as deepening cultural exchanges and promoting people-to-people contacts.
And we are sincerely interested in making your embassies’ work in these key spheres
successful. You can always count on the help of the Russian official agencies
as well as businesses and civil circles. All your useful endeavours will definitely
be supported.
This year marks the 75
th
anniversary of the end of WWII. In May we invite foreign leaders and delegations to attend celebrations marking the great Victory in Moscow to commemorate the memory of millions of victims, pay tribute to the veterans and show our committal to the ideals of peace, freedom and justice. The victor
countries, members of the anti-Hitler coalition, made these ideals the foundation of the post-war world order embodied in the United Nations Charter
75 years ago.
Unfortunately, nowadays humankind is
coming ever closer to a dangerous line. Regional conflicts are multiplying, the threats of terrorism and extremism are growing and the arms control system is
being uprooted. The global economy is also unstable.
Ladies and gentlemen,
Today’s ceremony is attended by the heads of diplomatic missions of 23 countries of Europe, Asia, Africa, America
and Australia. By tradition, I would like to say a few words about our
bilateral relations.
Russia favours pragmatic and business-like cooperation with Australia. We are giving support to the business
circles of both countries in their effort to implement mutually beneficial
joint projects and are facilitating the expansion of humanitarian contacts.
We are satisfied with the present
state of collaboration with Morocco. Our states have achieved decent results in mutual trade, agriculture, and deep-sea fisheries. There are opportunities for advanced Russian technologies and R&D results to reach the Moroccan market.
Our relations with the People’s
Republic of China are at an unprecedentedly high level. In fact, this is a comprehensive strategic partnership. Bilateral trade is consistently being
built up. The
Power of Siberia
gas
pipeline has been put into operation. Ties in the field of defence and military-technical cooperation are developing successfully. In April, we are
planning to launch the Russian-Chinese cross Year of Scientific, Technological
and Innovation Cooperation. Our two countries coordinate their positions on key
global and regional problems and work in unison at international organisations
and associations, including the UN, BRICS, and the Shanghai Cooperation
Organisation. China and all of us have come face to face with the threat of the coronavirus. Leaders of the PRC have been taking resolute and energetic
measures to halt the epidemic. We are ready to render help and every kind of assistance to the friendly Chinese people.
We are keen to promote cooperation
with Sweden in the spirit of good-neighbourliness and mutual respect. Held in St Petersburg last year, our talks with Prime Minister Stefan Löfven have confirmed
that our two countries have the capacity for invigorating our economic,
cultural and humanitarian contacts and for joint work on matters related to the Baltic Sea and other regional affairs.
Russia attaches much importance to promoting constructive collaboration with the Federal Republic of Germany. We
regularly discuss with Ms Chancellor Angela Merkel current international and bilateral issues. We have supported the idea to hold a conference on a Libyan
settlement in Berlin and participated in it in the most pro-active manner.
Russia and the FRG are intensifying their mutually beneficial cooperation in trade, investment, and energy, and we intend to continue this joint positive
work.
Russia and Ireland
are striving for closer trade and economic cooperation, including in high technology,
innovation and agriculture. There are opportunities for bilateral cooperation in education, culture and similar areas.
Russia and Serbia
are linked by a strategic partnership that relies on traditions of friendship and the cultural, spiritual and historical affinity of our fraternal peoples. Last December,
meaningful talks were held with President Aleksandar Vucic in Sochi. Important agreements
were reached on bilateral cooperation in an entire range of areas: the economy,
trade, the power industry, culture and coordination on regional matters. Russia
is doing much to help maintain the situation in the Balkans stable and safe. We
want Belgrade and Pristina to reach a mutually acceptable solution to the Kosovo
problem on the basis of UN Security Council Resolution 1244.
Singapore is
Russia’s highly promising partner in the Asia-Pacific Region. We appreciate our
political dialogue that is actively promoting practical cooperation. The implementation of the free trade agreement signed by the Eurasian Economic
Union and Singapore at the end of last year is designed to give an impetus to mutual trade and investment growth. We hope to conclude a Russia-Singapore
bilateral agreement on services and investment.
We are
friends and partners with the Kingdom of Cambodia. We are interested in further
developing our relations in diverse areas, including politics and security,
trade and investment, as well as educational and other people-to-people exchanges.
I am convinced
that the further development of relations between Russia and the Hellenic
Republic meets the interests of our states and certainly aligns with the centuries-old traditions of friendship and mutual affinity between our nations.
In addition to our cooperation in politics, the economy and the power industry,
there are good opportunities for expanding our contacts in tourism and culture.
In this context, I would like to mention the current Cross Year of Language and Literature.
Russia and Iraq have accumulated a wealth of experience of mutually
beneficial cooperation in many spheres, including the fuel and energy sector.
Russia firmly stands for the preservation of Iraq’s sovereignty and territorial
integrity and has helped to ensure Iraqi security. We believe that efforts
towards internal political stability in Iraq should be taken within the framework of a broad national dialogue based on respect for the interests of all citizens, regardless of their ideological beliefs and ethnic and religious
backgrounds.
Russia has strong and friendly ties with Algeria. The presidential
election held there late last year was a big step towards political and social
reform in your country. We support Algeria’s balanced policy in international
and regional affairs. We see good possibilities for building up our economic
and military technical cooperation and for coordinating our efforts in the interests of stronger stability and security in North Africa and the Sahel-Saharan
zone. I recently had a short conversation with your President in Berlin. I hope
to see him in Russia soon.
Mongolia is a good neighbour and a tried and tested friend. Last year
Russia and Mongolia celebrated the 80th anniversary of victory in the Battle of Khalkhin Gol and signed a termless Treaty on Friendly Relations and Comprehensive Strategic Partnership. We consider it reasonable to complement
our close political interaction with practical projects in trade, investment
and humanitarian spheres. We are satisfied with the development of the trilateral
Russia-Mongolia-China dialogue. We would like to see Mongolia more actively
involved in operations of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation as well.
We are resolved to further strengthen bilateral cooperation with Tunis,
which is among Russia’s traditional partners in the Middle East and North
Africa. We are ready to work together on current regional matters, including a settlement in Libya.
Russia enjoys friendly and mutually
respectful relations with Iran. Major bilateral projects in the energy sector,
including nuclear energy, in railway transport and other sectors of the economy
are steadily expanding. An interim agreement to create a free trade area
between Iran and the EAEU came into force in 2019 and gave an additional boost
to Russian-Iranian trade and investment relations. We plan to promote
cooperation with Iran in fighting international terrorism, coordinate our
actions as part of the Astana process and facilitate a settlement in Syria.
Russia will continue to make efforts to preserve the Joint Comprehensive Plan
of Action for the Iranian nuclear programme. We believe this international
agreement is critically important for global and regional stability.
Russian-Bangladeshi ties are quite dynamic.
Trade is up, and a major project to build Bangladesh’s first nuclear power station,
Rooppur, is in progress. Given the proximity of our respective states'
approaches to most pressing regional problems, we look forward to continuing
close cooperation at the UN and other multilateral organisations.
The current state of relations
between Russia and Great Britain can hardly be considered satisfactory by either side. We are convinced that restoring a mutually respectful political
dialogue, strengthening trade and economic exchanges, and building up cultural
and people-to-people contacts is in our common interest. We are ready for this.
We stand for promoting Russia-New
Zealand ties in trade, investment and culture. We find it useful to interact on international issues, including counterterrorism, climate change and research
in the Antarctic.
We are open to cooperation with
Canada based on mutual respect for and consideration of each other's interests.
Canada and Russia are neighbours in the Arctic and share common responsibility
for ensuring the sustainable development of this vast region, preserving the traditional way of life of the indigenous peoples and taking good care of its
fragile ecosystem.
France is one of Russia’s key
international partners. We maintain contacts with President Macron, hold regular
meetings, discuss issues such as a settlement in Libya, Syria and the Middle
East in general, and interact on the Ukraine crisis within the Normandy format.
At a bilateral summit held in Fort de Bregancon last August, we agreed to work jointly
on ensuring stability and security in Europe. Economic ties between Russia and France, including in industry and energy, continue to expand. On January 16,
the Russian Seasons festival opened in France. It is designed to promote friendship
and mutual understanding between the peoples of our countries.
Global peace and security largely
depend on the state of relations between Russia and the United States, as well
as on their stability and predictability. We are convinced that these relations
should hinge on the principles of equality, respect for sovereignty and non-interference in each other’s domestic affairs. We are ready for detailed
dialogue with the American side, including on arms control and strategic
stability, the fight against terrorism and the peaceful resolution of regional
crises. For us, it is absolutely obvious that resuming constructive bilateral
collaboration meets the interests of Russia, the United States and the entire
world.
We advocate the further development
of ties with the Republic of Panama, efforts to streamline the legal framework,
cooperation and expanded contacts on the economic agenda. We will continue to encourage educational exchanges and help train specialists for Panama.
Relations between Russia and Kazakhstan are an example of reliable strategic partnership and allied cooperation.
Bilateral collaboration is based on solid historical, cultural and spiritual
bonds between our nations. We appreciate the current level of trust and collaboration with the leaders of Kazakhstan. Last year, we held nine meetings
with President Kassym-Jomart Tokayev. And, of course, we maintain close
contacts with our good friend Nursultan Nazarbayev. Sustainable integration within
the Eurasian Economic Union continues to develop largely through joint efforts
of Russia and Kazakhstan. Trade and economic relations between our countries are
expanding in all areas, including in industry, energy and investment. Russia
and Kazakhstan closely coordinate their approaches to matters on the international agenda. It is common knowledge that our Kazakhstani partners
provided a venue for launching the Astana negotiating process to achieve a Syrian peace settlement.
Ladies and gentlemen,
Intensive but highly interesting
work awaits all of you. I hope that you will be able to get to know Russia
better, feel its pulse and watch our country accomplish important and ambitious
tasks of political, economic and social development. I also hope that you will
provide real assistance in expanding bilateral ties between Russia and the states you represent and will facilitate stronger friendship and mutual
understanding between our nations. I wish you every success and all the best.
Thank you."
Mr President, Mr Vucic, Mr Borisov, Deputies of the Parliament of the Republic of Turkey, Ladies and Gentlemen, All those present at the official launch of the new gas pipeline, TurkStream, are witnessing a very important event not only for Russia and Turkey, but also for the states of southern Europe, for the entire European continent. Our ministers have just spoken very convincingly about this. The successful implementation of this grand joint project, a trans-Black Sea gas pipeline, clearly shows that the Russian-Turkish strategic partnership is producing significant, tangible results. See also All news about the visit to Turkey January 8, 2020 Interaction between Russia and Turkey is growing steadily in almost every area. Despite the complex international situation, and the attempts of a number of global players to hinder the expansion of mutually beneficial cooperation between our countries, our work is proceeding steadily. I would like to note that Russia has been exporting gas to Turkey for 30 years, even though not everyone knows about it. It was initially shipped through the Trans-Balkan gas pipeline, then through the direct, transit-free Blue Stream pipeline. Last year alone, 24 billion cubic metres of fuel was delivered to our Turkish partners. Now Russian gas will be shipped to Turkey via a new route, the TurkStream. This is in many ways a unique deep-sea gas transportation system, unprecedented in some parameters. Two parallel lines with a capacity of almost 16 billion cubic metres of gas each have been built. This involved laying over 1,800 kilometres of pipes, some of them at a more than two kilometre depth. This was difficult, hard work. It is also a high-tech project because the gas pipeline runs at tremendous depth, as well as in a very hostile environment. The first line will deliver gas from the fields in western Siberia directly to our Turkish partners. The second one will cross Turkey to the Balkans, carrying fuel to Bulgaria, Serbia, and Greece. Again, the supply of Russian gas through TurkStream will undoubtedly be of great importance for not only the Turkish economy and the Black Sea region, but will also have a positive impact on the development of many south European countries, and will contribute to improving Europe’s overall energy security. To build the pipeline, as I have said, we used advanced innovative technologies to achieve the highest economic efficiency of gas transportation, and guarantee the safety and environmental friendliness of the pipeline operation. The builders used the most modern machinery and equipment. They also set a new world record of the fastest underwater installation of pipes – over six kilometres in one day. I
Friends, colleagues, Mr Jeenbekov, The presidency is being handed over to Russia, and we would like to invite our partners to focus on the following priorities in our joint work. First, we believe it is important to continue the implementation of the CSTO Collective Security Strategy to 2025 consistently and as planned. It involves resolving practical issues related to forestalling or reducing common threats and improving security within our countries’ space. Russia intends to closely cooperate with the CSTO states in order to expand the organisation’s operational capabilities, improving the CSTO collective forces’ combat training, cohesion and mobility. We will develop and offer our partners a five-year plan for military cooperation within the CSTO until 2025, which we could approve at the next summit. We believe it is necessary to improve the effectiveness of analysing and forecasting the military-political situation within the CSTO responsibility zone keeping in mind the possibility of more hot spots appearing next to our borders. In this regard, we believe it is appropriate to step up the CSTO Crisis Response Centre’s activities, including the exchange of operational information. Of course, we will strive to further strengthen cooperation with our partners in fighting international terrorism and extremism. We believe it important to keep up joint operations to identify and to eliminate international terrorist groups within the CSTO space, their bases, and sources of funding. We are willing to share our experience of fighting terrorism gained in Syria and to use it in our efforts to improve the CSTO forces’ operational capabilities. We believe that stepping up CSTO activities in combating drug trafficking is a priority. To this end, we will initiate drafting a revised CSTO anti-drug strategy for 2021–2025, which will contain additional concrete measures designed to curb the production and trade in drugs and to tighten border regulations. Building up the CSTO peacekeeping capabilities, maintaining the peacekeeping forces’ high combat readiness and increasing the effectiveness of the command should be our top priorities. We suggest continuing the drafting of regulatory and organisational documents that would make it possible for the CSTO units to participate in UN peacekeeping operations. Russia will help expand the circle of friends of our organisation through developing cooperation with all the states and international associations that may be interested in doing so. Notably, last year we approved a package of documents opening up the opportunity for granting the status of CSTO observer or partner. After all the members of the organisation ratify these documents, a substantive dialogue can be opened with the states that are interested in establishing closer contacts with the CSTO. Friends, Next year, we will jointly celebrate the 75 th anniversary of Victory in the Great Patriotic War. A detailed plan has been agreed upon providing for holding commemorative, social, cultural and educational events in all CSTO countries. We are looking forward to seeing the leaders of the CSTO member states at the celebrations in Moscow on May 9, 2020, and we are grateful for the support we have been given regarding our idea to have military contingents from all the CSTO member states take part in the Victory Parade on Red Square. Of course, we focus particularly on making sure that our states continue to proceed from a single position when it comes to distributing objective information about the decisive role of the peoples of the Soviet Union in defeating Nazism. This month, the relevant committee of the UN General Assembly approved Russia’s draft resolution on combating the glorification of Nazism with 121 states voting in favour. I would like to express my gratitude to all the CSTO members who not only jointly supported the resolution, but also co-authored it. In closing, I would like to congratulate Kyrgyzstan on its successful CSTO presidency this year and to provide assurances that Russia will ensure continuity in the organisation’s activities, and will keep up the constructive and meaningful work in the spirit of true alliance and partnership. Colleagues, we will make advance arrangements with you regarding the place and date of the next CSTO Collective Security Council meeting in Russia. Thank you. See also All news about the visit to Kyrgyzstan November 28, 2019
Good evening, colleagues, or is it good afternoon? I would like to begin by thanking our hosts, including the President of Brazil and all our colleagues, who worked hard, persistently and, I believe, effectively throughout the year and have held the BRICS summit at a very high level. As you know, we have signed a final document, which has been coordinated with all the sides. I believe that it is a very substantive and well-structured document, which includes a number of tough statements, which we see as a matter of principle. We will carry on our efforts at the rate achieved in Brazil and in the areas which Brazil itself considers to be of priority significance. We are grateful to our hosts, and I would like to congratulate them on the success of this event. I do not agree that people think about BRICS only during its summits. As I said, our Brazilian colleagues were preparing for the summit throughout the preceding year. They have held a great number of events and coordinated the sides’ positions on the key development issues. You surely remember what we say about BRICS, that it has become a factor of stability not only in politics but also in the global economy, because it stands for open markets, against any kind of protectionism, etc. You can read about this in our final document. I believe that BRICS is playing a stabilising role in this sense. As for increasing its influence, we are not pushing it or trying to turn the group into a closed alliance. However, the role of BRICS will definitely increase in the context of global changes. Colleagues, I invite you to take a look at the economy. Just look at the figures. This year BRICS has surpassed the G7 in terms of GDP PPP by 12 percent, I believe. And next year we will have $50 trillion more than the G7 countries. Is there anyone who does not see this? It is a very real and substantial factor of international affairs, and it will continue to grow. As concerns its value, we can rightfully regard Russia as one of the founders of this organisation. Everything started here, in St Petersburg, when we suggested having a trilateral meeting between the President of Russia , Prime Minister of India and the President of China. This is how ‘RIC’ came about. It was later joined by Brazil and South Africa, thus making it a ‘BRICS’ that was also ultimately formed in Russia. Therefore, we take this organisation very seriously. I have just expressed my opinion about it. As for inviting other countries, outreach is a common practice. We plan to invite both regional economic organisations – primarily, the EAEU – and the CIS. Remember that some of the BRICS countries are also involved in the EAEU; therefore, it will be an absolutely natural meeting of the partners in another organisation, if not BRICS. The discussion will be open to all the parties and every issue to be discussed will be of interest to everybody invited to the event. On top of that, we believe it is important that – as, I think, I already mentioned this at the meeting with our partners and yesterday at the meeting with the business community – it was Russia that initiated adopting the BRICS Development Strategy until 2025. Considering the rapidly changing situation in the world, we think it is time to update this economic development strategy, which will also be one of our proposals. Go ahead, please. I do not think that there is any lack of interest in each other right now, be it from Brazil towards Russia or the other way around. We have not picked up on it. Yes, as you know, there is a new leader in the country, a new president who has been in office for only a year. This job takes time to get some perspective and set your priorities. This is the first point. Second, under BRICS, we have never committed to working exclusively with each other. BRICS is not a self-contained closed organisation. Each of the countries has its full sovereignty and independently determines its development priorities and partners. Needless to say, the United States as a global power and a power located in the Americas is obviously an interesting partner for Brazil. This is completely natural. As concerns our relations, they are developing and doing so rather successfully, in my opinion. Russia continues to remain an attractive partner for Brazil when it comes to agriculture and especially the supplies of Brazilian meat to our market. On our part, we also offer a variety of goods, including fertilisers that Brazil needs for its agriculture, at competitive prices and of very high quality. There are other areas of mutual interest as well. Speaking about our contacts, right now we are expecting a visit by the first Brazilian Minister of Citizenship, who is, based on Russian standards, the head of government. We will discuss many interesting issues, including Brazil’s development plans. If our Brazilian partners are looking, they will be able to find interesting partners in Russia for investing in infrastructure and other promising projects. I will start with the last question about Mr Xi Jinping’s Our military-technical cooperation with India is at a very high level and I think that it is a very important aspect of our relations. However, our dialogue recently has been increasingly focused on cooperation in civilian areas. There is much that needs to be done and we think that the potential of this cooperation is not fully realised yet. Our trade with India is worth $11 billion. This is not enough for economies like Russia and India, especially since India under Mr Modi is demonstrating very fast economic growth. They are succeeding in many areas and making very important, though not so simple at a first glance, decisions that are necessary for the economy. Developing rapidly, India is a very promising partner for us, especially because we have absolutely no issues that would sour our relations. It has always been like this by tradition and remains the same. I hope our bilateral relations will be as friendly in the future. As concerns the S-400 supplies, everything is going according to plan. My Indian colleague did not ask for the supplies to be expedited. Everything is normal. India has 1.350 billion people and maybe even more. It is a sovereign state that values its sovereignty. We see that, despite any external pressure, India stands by its obligations – just like Russia. We will develop our cooperation further, including in the areas that are considered high-tech arms. Please, go ahead. Let me express my personal view on this matter. In my opinion, there are different reasons for every country. Of course, socioeconomic problems are always at the core, such as various shortcomings or problems that were not resolved quickly enough. At the same time, as we have been pointing out all along, there are also elements of outside interference, but they always emerge whenever there are challenges on the domestic front. Nevertheless, let me reiterate that every country is particular in its own way. Watching all the developments in Bolivia, to take one example, here is what I We hope that, no matter who comes to power in Bolivia, they will remain interested in expanding relations with Russia. In turn, we are ready to cooperate with the authorities that will receive a legitimate mandate from their country’s people. Speaking of Venezuela, our position is well known. To be honest, this probably answers your question completely. Go ahead, please. We are not planning any meetings so far. As for the May 9, 2020 celebrations in Moscow, if the President of the United States decides and is able to come , I believe that a visit for the celebrations of the end of World War II would become a positive and right step for the leader of a country that made a substantial contribution to fighting Nazism. But this is not up to us to decide. If the President of the United States arrives, then, of course, I will meet with him in Moscow, and we will talk. Full-format talks do not depend on the grandeur of the occasion when the meeting takes place. The success of the talks depends on sincerity and a desire to discuss key matters of bilateral relations. We are ready for this. If the United States also proves to be ready, then good talks are possible in this sense and in this case. Please. Why do you say “seems to have yielded”? There are tangible results. First of all, regarding the contribution made by the United States to combatting terrorism in Syria, the US did have a role in these efforts. This has to be recognised and said outright. President Trump also made his own contribution. At the same time, before Russia came to Syria and became actively involved there, the so-called international coalition had been failing to make any headway for several years. However, the United States did contribute to the combined counter-terrorist efforts as part of the operation carried out when Mr Trump became president. Still, I believe that any impartial observer would understand the role Russia played in terms of warfare intensity and the outcome. Once Russia became proactive in supporting the legitimate government in Damascus, almost 90 percent of the country’s territory was freed from terrorists. These territories were not just liberated, but placed under the control of the legitimate Syrian government. This was our objective and we fulfilled it. As for Russia’s interests, they lay first of all in protecting Russia from being infiltrated by a large number of highly trained fighters with military experience. In this sense, we cannot say that we have solved one hundred percent of our tasks, but overall, yes, we have fulfilled the task we had set when launching the operation in Syria. Now we are receiving more information from Syria, after Syrian border guards were stationed along the Syrian-Turkish border, for example, who is in the camps. We know that there are hundreds of fighters from Russia and several thousand from CIS countries. How many have been eradicated? At least that many, if not more. So yes, it is a common problem; all countries are threatened with infiltration by Syrian fighters who leave Syria for other countries. This is also true for European countries. We know tragic cases when fighters with military experience received in Syria attacked some European countries. This is also dangerous for the US. Everyone is in danger, and this is why we must join our efforts. I hope that we will work together constructively. By the way, we share elements of work on countering terrorism in Syria with many countries, including the United States. However, we still have many tasks in the Idlib area, because a lot of fighters are located there who cross into other countries, including Libya. We – everyone who are still working on the Syrian problem – still have questions regarding the east bank of the Euphrates, where fighters and foreign presence, including the US presence, can still be found. I have said many times that we do not consider it legitimate, because these military groups are not stationed there at the invitation of the Syrian government or under the UN Security Council resolution, so it is illegal. There is also the At Tanf zone with the US soldiers and a large number of fighters, who in fact have taken the civilians there hostage. Let me start with the question on Mr Nazarbayev’s initiative. He is a respected person, and I have very close, friendly relations with him. He is a weathered politician. Incidentally, he once lived in Ukraine for many years, knows this country very well, and has great sympathy for it, never missing an opportunity to show off this attitude in public. For this reason, I am not at all surprised. However, he always proceeded from the premise that Ukraine should not seek its fortunes overseas. “Over the ocean the calf costs half, but it is dear to ship it here” – you know how the Russian saying goes? This means to say that instead of seeking fortunes overseas, you have to turn to your neighbours. This is the right way to do things. As a matter of fact, a meeting before the Normandy Format meeting is not on the agenda, since we agreed to meet in the Normandy Format. So if we are to meet anyway, why should we bother to organise meetings without any proper preparations? I do not think anyone is interested in this, neither I nor President Zelensky. After all, we have to produce results. Otherwise, we are in contact, the two of us, talking to each other by phone. So the contact is there, but we have to come up with solutions. As a matter of principle, the Normandy Format and a meeting in this format are possible. After all, there is no mechanism other than the Normandy Format. It is for this reason that we, and when I say we, I mean Russia, i.e., my colleagues and I, the Foreign Ministry and the relevant agencies, we are for maintaining this format. Let me reiterate that this is all we have. We welcome the disengagement of forces in these two critical areas; this is good. We welcome the actions of both the Ukrainian authorities and the self-proclaimed republics. On the other hand, there are some ambiguous reports. For example, I believe it was the Ukrainian Foreign Minister who said that Ukraine could abandon the Minsk Agreements altogether. But why? What will we discuss in the Normandy format then? I do not see what else we can discuss in this format. This is the first thing. Secondly, we have seen official statements saying that other military units, including police and the National Guard of Ukraine, could be deployed in the area from which troops and heavy weaponry have pulled out. If this happens, the Lugansk and Donetsk self-defence forces will act likewise. Do we need this now that these areas have been vacated? I do not think so. And last but not least, I would like to draw your attention and the attention of all the colleagues present here to the key matter. The Ukrainian leaders have announced that a different law on the special status of Donbass could be adopted. What kind of law will this be? It is a subject of paramount importance. If this new law is not coordinated with Lugansk and Donetsk, the process will be deadlocked overnight. The Steinmeier Formula, which does not have any special content, is only an instrument for adopting and implementing the law on special status after the local elections. It is merely a formula, which, by the way, does not fully comply with the Minsk Agreements. But we accepted it; it was a compromise on our part, because we wanted to see at least some progress. Why would we need this formula without a law on special status if the formula was created to ensure its implementation? Regarding negotiations with Ukraine and whether there is a threat that transit will come to an end, we have said time and again that we are ready to work with Ukraine on shipping our gas to Europe through Ukraine, as well as on gas supplies to Ukraine itself at lower prices than what Ukraine pays for the same Russian gas obtained through the would-be reverse gas flow from Europe. I I fully understand, and we have discussed this many times with my colleagues in the Government, that we must find a balance between our security interests and the development of the market. The IT market is organised in such a way that we are interested in attracting and preserving foreign investment and foreign technologies. We are interested in creating the best conditions for the development of this economic sector in Russia, which is very important for us in general. I believe that, considering everything – the decision has not yet been approved by the Government although it has the draft law, but I know that discussion is still underway, the Government will be able to find a flexible tool to regulate this market without harming our foreign partners while ensuring the country’s security. We understand that this is also a very important sphere for the interests of society as a whole and the people. But let us prevent the situation when our foreign partners find themselves at a disadvantage in an uncompetitive environment. For example, we have just discussed a South African company that operates successfully on the Russian market. Why should we restrict its work? However, we cannot choose one company and say that we like this one but not that one. We all understand that there are nuances of this difficult process. In March? I think you just assessed the practice of its enforcement – it is not over the top. I think that every state – not only Russia, and by the way, other countries assign far more severe punishments for desecrating national symbols – but in fact every civilised state protects itself from disrespect for national symbols. This, in fact, is the purpose of this law – not to shut off all criticism of the government by the people. There should be criticism, it needs to continue as an effective tool to improve the functioning of the government. The authorities are interested in this. Yes, right, decided to correct me. In 2020, the BRICS GDP will be not $50 trillion above the G7; it would be 50 trillion rubles. If I said something different, excuse me, please. This is exactly what I meant – 50 trillion rubles, which is still more than G7. The last one, please. Yes. There is. We have a very constructive dialogue with OPEC. We understand the reason for their tough stance, including our friends in Saudi Arabia, it is Aramco’s IPO plans. Everyone understands this, it is an open secret, but it doesn’t matter. They have their own current interests, and we should respect this – we are doing just that. As for the outlook for cooperation, it will not boil down to restraining our production or reducing it. We have other fields for cooperation, too. But the system of relations that has developed between Russia and OPEC, as well as non-OPEC countries, appears to be an effective tool of maintaining the balance on the global energy market that everyone needs – the consumers of energy resources as well as producers thereof. We take it that we can achieve this balance by joint efforts, not to the detriment of anyone, but, on the contrary, to everyone’s benefit, considering that stability in the global energy markets is good for both consumers and producers, and wider, for the global economy, because it creates conditions for stable international supplies at affordable prices. Thank you very much. All the best. See also Visit to Brazil. BRICS Summit November 13 − 14, 2019
President Bolsonaro, Prime Minister Modi, President Xi Jinping, President Ramaphosa, forum participants, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by greeting everyone present here, and I certainly agree with the assessments by the heads of state who spoke earlier that the BRICS Business Forum is making a tangible practical contribution to our joint efforts to promote mutual trade and investment, as well as ties between our economies. This is also confirmed by the results of the current forum. Our hosts have just noted that over 1,000 people took part in the work. We discussed many interesting projects and many promising agreements were reached. It is now time to implement them. In turn, we are ready to assist entrepreneurs in every way. Of course, all of us know that the global economic situation remains complicated. Global growth rates have been subsiding since early 2018. The International Monetary Fund predicts that this year growth rates will hit a ten-year low. Indeed, our colleagues who have spoken here are noting aptly that BRICS countries are making a weighty contribution to maintaining economic growth. The more frequent use of unfair competition methods in global trade, as well as unilateral sanctions, including politically motivated sanctions and rampant protectionism, have undoubtedly impacted the economy. In these conditions, BRICS countries have to exert serious efforts in order to ensure the development of their own economies, and to prevent an aggravation of the social situation and a decline in living standards and the well-being of our countries’ citizens. We have conducted a balanced macroeconomic policy in Russia for years with a responsible attitude to state funds. We are maintaining the stability of the banking and lending markets, and trying to help strengthen the main economic sectors. Thanks to these efforts, we have prevented the national economy from sliding into a recession. Of course, we do not regard the current GDP growth rate as sufficient, which is why we are trying to create the most comfortable conditions possible for new investments, doing our best to simplify regulatory norms and developing a modern infrastructure. In October of this year, the World Bank again upgraded its assessment of the business and investment climate in Russia. Our investment attractiveness, including the securities market, is improving. Based on the results of the first quarter of 2019, foreign investment in federal bonds has increased by nearly $4 billion. Russia is an active member of international trade. We are expanding mutually beneficial ties with other countries, primarily our BRICS partners. In 2018, our trade with the BRICS countries increased by 22.5 percent to more than $125 billion. We are promoting industrial cooperation within BRICS and creating modern technological and investment alliances, primarily in science-intensive spheres. One of the positive examples of this cooperation is the joint implementation together with our BRICS partners of projects in aircraft and rocket manufacturing, healthcare, pharmaceuticals and space exploration. There is potential for building up our interaction in the field of ICT. We invite the BRICS countries to take a look at our new achievements in electronic document management, search systems and antivirus software, which meet the highest data security requirements. We can offer them to our BRICS partners. I would like to remind you that Russia has proposed launching a data exchange system for small and medium-sized businesses within BRICS. This would allow our businesses to receive the latest information about goods, services and suppliers and to look for new partners. The energy sector is one of the high-priority cooperation spheres for our five countries. Russia ensures reliable fuel and energy deliveries to global markets and makes a substantial contribution to maintaining global energy security, without which it would be impossible to ensure economic growth and social development. We are ready to expand collaboration with the BRICS countries in using environmentally friendly fuel. Promising aspects of our joint work include production of renewable energy sources, efforts to boost energy efficiency and the use of natural gas as a motor fuel. I must also point out that Russia has the most advanced, cleanest and safest civilian nuclear technology. We are successfully expanding cooperation in this area with our BRICS partners, primarily the People’s Republic of China and India. We can offer mutually beneficial nuclear power industry projects to all other BRICS countries as well. Colleagues, Russia will assume the presidency of BRICS next year. It goes without saying that we will prioritise matters of further expanding intra-BRICS trade and investment collaboration. First of all, we are planning to propose that BRICS countries update the Economic Partnership Strategy, which was adopted at the 2015 summit in Russia. It would be appropriate to think what new goals our association should set, and what truly large-scale joint tasks in trade, finance and investment we should focus on. Of course, we will use all the constructive ideas and proposals that have been submitted by the BRICS Business Council, the New Development Bank, and the business and expert communities. I would like to note that a detailed programme of events will be drafted in the run-up to the planned July 2020 BRICS summit in St Petersburg. Many of them will focus on economic cooperation. I would like to use this opportunity to invite official representatives and business leaders of BRICS member countries to take part in these events. We also would like to invite you to attend major business forums in Russia, including the St Petersburg International Economic Forum, scheduled for June 3–6, 2020, and the Eastern Economic Forum in early September in Vladivostok, Russia’s Far East. Thank you for your attention. See also Visit to Brazil. BRICS Summit November 13 − 14, 2019
Mr President, colleagues, friends, I am pleased to welcome the participants of the Russia-Kazakhstan Interregional Cooperation Forum to Omsk. The President of Kazakhstan and I just thought that it was symbolic that the first such forum was held in this city in 2003. This is the 16 th meeting of Russian and Kazakhstani regions. More than 1,600 representatives from 24 Russian regions and 10 Kazakhstani regions have come to Omsk, including governors, federal ministers, members of parliament and CEOs of major companies, as well as experts and researchers. Russia-Kazakhstan regional forums always bring good practical results. This time, a large package of interdepartmental and interregional agreements and commercial contracts will be signed as well. I am convinced that this forum will not only help improve ties between our regions, but will further strengthen the comprehensive Russian-Kazakhstani strategic partnership in general. By the way, bilateral cooperation was also discussed during separate talks with the President of Kazakhstan, which took place before our meeting. We regularly meet and discuss this. Russia and Kazakhstan cooperate closely in all key areas, including trade and investment. Last year, trade grew by 4.5 percent to $18.2 billion, with about 70 percent of this amount in interregional trade. Seventy-six of 85 Russian regions have mutually beneficial relations with all regions of the Republic of Kazakhstan. Russia is the largest investor in Kazakhstan’s economy. Accumulated Russian investment in Kazakhstan amounts to $13 billion, and Kazakhstan in Russia almost $4 billion. Over 6,500 joint ventures have been created and operate in different regions of our countries. New interregional projects in trade and investment were also discussed at a meeting of the Russia-Kazakhstan Business Council timed to the forum. I believe Mr Tokayev will agree with me that we have always supported and will continue to support such promising joint projects. Entrepreneurs in both countries can rely on continuous support from Russian and Kazakhstani ministries and agencies. Regions in Russia and Kazakhstan are actively developing humanitarian contact as well as ties in education and personnel training. About 74,000 citizens of Kazakhstan study at Russian universities, including more than 30,000 that receive grants from the Russian budget. Most of them earn top qualifications in regional universities in the Volga Region, Siberia and the Urals. In addition, a branch of Chelyabinsk State University has been operating successfully in Kostanay for some time. Russian specialists continue helping their Kazakhstani partners train Russian language teachers. Currently, we are exploring the possibility of opening Russian-Kazakhstani schools and a university in Kazakhstan. I must certainly mention youth policy and the upbringing of the younger generation. The first forum of youth leaders of Russia and Kazakhstan will promote bilateral cooperation in these areas. We know about the efforts of our young leaders to make these meetings regular. Colleagues, A tangible contribution to Russia-Kazakhstan strategic partnership is made by close, friendly and neighbourly ties between numerous regions, towns and villages located along the border of our countries, a border that is over 7,500 kilometres long. This is why cross-border cooperation occupies a central place at this forum. A concept of the programme for bilateral cross-border cooperation was drafted for the forum and will be adopted today. It is important for the regional authorities in our countries and the federal agencies to actively join the effort to fill this programme with specific projects, ideas and initiatives. I think particular focus should be on improving border infrastructure and expanding Russia-Kazakhstan border crossing capacity. This is what the Joint Action Programme on the Russia-Kazakhstan State Border Crossing Points to be signed during the forum is designed to achieve. Russia is interested in increasing industrial cooperation in border areas and creating joint ventures. Positive examples of this interaction include building an oil refinery in the Orenburg Region, which will use crude oil from Kazakhstan’s Karachaganak field, and developing the cross-border Vesenne-Aralchinsky copper ore deposit. Our regions could do more together to protect the environment and to preserve the ecosystem of transboundary rivers, such as the Ural River, the Irtysh River and other large rivers. Speaking at a restricted meeting today, the President of Kazakhstan raised these issues, and I completely agree with him. This is in our common interest. It is necessary to develop tourism programmes, such as the Altai Golden Ring project, where new tourist routes and tours are being created that combine medical treatment and recreation, and tours to historical, cultural and natural sites. Colleagues, Major issues of Russia-Kazakhstan cross-border cooperation and interregional cooperation in general were discussed in detail during our forum. As I understand, the speakers are summing up the discussions and projects. I am pleased to give the floor to the President of Kazakhstan and hope that the speakers who take the floor after us will add to what we said. Thank you. Mr President, friends, I also believe that work conducted during the Russia-Kazakhstan Interregional Cooperation Forum deserves praise. And I agree with my colleague that the agenda was packed and modern. There were many meetings, contacts and events, and all of them were quite meaningful and up to the mark. Many topical matters of expanding collaboration between Russian and Kazakhstani regions were reviewed in great detail. It is significant that special attention was paid to expanding cross-border cooperation, which is a significant element of Russian-Kazakhstani strategic partnership. I am confident that the current forum will help consolidate it. It goes without saying that the participants’ ideas and proposals regarding more active trade and investment ties, as well as those in the area of industrial cooperation, transport, education, youth exchanges and, of course, information policy which is an extremely important sphere, will remain in high demand. I would like to thank the President of Kazakhstan, all Kazakhstani colleagues, representatives of Russian regions and our agencies for the efficient and fruitful joint work and to wish them every success in the future. Next year, at the proposal of the President of Kazakhstan we will hold this meeting in Kazakhstan. Certainly, we agree with this, we are grateful to you for this proposal and for the event’s main theme that you have suggested. I agree completely that this is a highly important aspect of our joint work. Thank you very much. See also Trip to Omsk. Russia-Kazakhstan Interregional Cooperation Forum November 7, 2019 Geography Kazakhstan Topics Foreign policy Persons Tokayev Kassym-
I would like to thank you for the invitation. I believe thanks to the government of Hungary and the city administration in Budapest the International Federation headquarters are in a great location. And I would like to note the many positive changes that have occurred in judo since 2008 when you became the IJF President. Additional Working visit to Hungary October 30, 2019 This has led to a change in the rules and made judo a more dynamic sport, more entertaining to watch. You have introduced the practice of holding international competitions at various levels; you have motivated the athletes, including through financial incentives, and have done a lot to promote this wonderful sport around the world. Judo is now practiced on almost all continents. Although the Federation was primarily created as a European organisation – plus, I think, Argentina was among its initial members – now the International Judo Federation is present on almost all continents. You should be definitely credited for this. I would like to thank you on behalf of all the fans of this sport and I hope that the same policy for the development of judo will continue in the future. Thank you. This is an important point. We have been working on this track consistently, and have recently risen a
Mr el-Sisi, delegation heads, ladies and gentlemen. We are concluding our discussion. I would like to say a few words in this connection. The Prime Minister of Tanzania, who was speaking just now, told us about his country’s advantages and landmarks, including Kilimanjaro. I would like to tell you that Russia knows about the snows of Kilimanjaro and the country’s attractions not only from the best literary works, such as the books of Ernest Hemingway. Additional All news about the trip to Sochi. Russia-Africa Summit We know Africa very well, and we have known it for a long time. We know that its main resource is its talented people. Of course, it also has rich natural resources, and the African leaders, who are our friends, and the African people in general want to move forward and to do this as speedily as possible. But we are also aware of the host of problems facing Africa that need to be settled. Our discussion has shown that we have similar or identical views when it comes to the majority of current global and regional problems. Our countries are interested in the progressive development of Russian-African relations in all spheres. We are ready to continue working together to strengthen our mutually beneficial cooperation. Much has been said here about the role of the Soviet Union and Russia in the development of independent African countries. We are sincerely grateful to you for your historical memory. This is very important to us. At the same time, it should be said that the Soviet Union’s actions were largely inspired by ideological considerations or the logic of global geopolitical fighting. Many speakers here mentioned a new stage and new quality of relations between Russia and Africa. I fully agree with this. This new stage and this new quality of our relations should be based on common values. We are at one in our support for the values of justice, equality and respect for the rights of nations to independently choose their future. It is within this framework that we will continue to coordinate our positions at international platforms and our joint efforts in the interests of stability on the African continent. Very useful ideas and proposals have been expressed today regarding more intensive contacts in politics and security, in trade and investment, industrial cooperation, science and high technologies, education and healthcare. The drafted final declaration of the summit outlines the fundamental approaches of Russia and African states to the development of relations; it determines the main goals and objectives for strengthening partnerships, as well as ways to achieve them. I take it that we all focus on making our cooperation more systematic and integrated. My colleagues also spoke about this here, both yesterday and today. To this end, a dialogue platform is being created at some of our African friends’ proposals – a Russia-Africa partnership forum. On that platform, we can hold Russia-Africa summits every three years, alternately in our country or in one of the African states. Current issues regarding the Russian-African cooperation agenda will be considered at annual consultations between foreign ministers of Russia and three African countries including the current, previous and future presidents of the African Union. I hope that relations between Russia and African countries will indeed ascend to a new qualitative level, which will undoubtedly meet the interests of each participant in today's summit. To wind up, I would like to thank President el-Sisi for his support. Without exaggeration, I would like to say that, had it not been for the support of our Egyptian friends, today's summit would have probably never got off the ground – not in the format we are now working in anyway. Among other things, as you can see, he has been here by my side and giving me a helping hand all through the day. I will have to share my salary with him now because he did part of my job. Thank you very much! I would like to thank all of you, colleagues, because I am sure you are responsible for this absolutely unique atmosphere. It definitely took a lot of time, and everyone had to speak out and state their opinion on how and what we need to do to enhance cooperation. But still, I think this is a unique atmosphere we have created, very friendly, a friendly atmosphere of free discussions, which, in my opinion, is also of great value. I would like to thank you all. If you agree with what I said, I hope we will continue our joint work in approximately the same vein. We will start improving our interaction. Thank you all so much and see you again. See also Russia-Africa Summit October 24, 2019
Colleagues, dear friends, welcome again. I would like to once again wholeheartedly welcome you to Russia. I hope you enjoyed yesterday evening. The performance we prepared for you was designed to demonstrate the soul of Russia and the Russian people. I believe that our performers have staged a talented and impressive demonstration of our respect for African culture and traditions. See also Closing remarks at the plenary session of the Russia-Africa Summit October 24, 2019 Press statements by presidents of Russia and Egypt following Russia–Africa Summit October 24, 2019 Today we will hold several sessions. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to proceed, if I may. First of all, I would like to address the President of Egypt and all the other heads of state and government and the leaders of executive bodies of regional organisations. We welcome all of you to the summit in Sochi devoted to interaction between Russia and Africa. Gathered here are representatives from all 54 African states and the leading regional organisations. It is the first meeting of this scale, which is evidence of our mutual desire to promote ties in all spheres and to strengthen our multifaceted partnership. I would like to point out straight away that the President of Egypt has played an important role in organising the Russia-Africa Summit, which is why I addressed him first. He, as the current Chairperson of the African Union, has been with us all though the preparatory work. Our Egyptian partners have assisted us in resolving content issues as well as the organisation of our meetings. And today it is a great honour for me to host this meeting with President el-Sisi. Friends, Russia and Africa are bound by traditionally friendly ties. Our country has consistently supported the national liberation movements of the peoples of Africa, we have made a significant contribution to the formation of young states and the development of their economies, as well as building up combat-ready armed forces. Our cooperation, rooted in the period of the joint fight against colonialism, is strategic and long-standing. Of course, there are significant opportunities for intensifying Russian-African cooperation in various fields. I would like to emphasise that the development of relations with African countries and regional organisations is among our Russian foreign policy priorities. African states are confidently gaining political and economic weight, affirming themselves as one of the important pillars of the multipolar world order, and are taking an increasingly important part in working out international community’s decisions on key issues related to the regional and global agenda. Our positions are close or coincide on many of those matters, which creates favourable conditions for constructive interaction at the UN and other international platforms. Additional All news about the trip to Sochi. Russia-Africa Summit We will certainly continue the practice of regular consultations at the UN General Assembly, we will strengthen contacts between our countries’ representatives with this organisation, and coordination with non-permanent members of the Security Council from among African countries. This will allow us to boost our efforts towards ensuring common and indivisible security, and the formation of a fairer model of the modern world. We are grateful to our African partners for supporting the resolutions that are of priority for us, namely, to combat the glorification of Nazism, the non-deployment of weapons first in outer space, confidence-building measures in outer space, and international information security. As a permanent member of the UN Security Council, Russia is determined to continue taking an active part in charting the strategic line of the international community and practical measures as regards strengthening peace and stability in Africa and maintaining regional security. We call for increasing the role of African states in the resolution of local conflicts. At the same time, we invariably advocate the principle stipulating African solutions for African problems, and we discussed this at length with our African colleagues yesterday. We consider it correct that African countries are raising the issue of financial support for their peacekeeping efforts from the accrued contributions to the UN budget. We are concerned that, unfortunately for all of us, the situation in many African regions remains unstable. Interstate and ethnic conflicts remain unresolved, and acute political and socio-economic crises persist. Terrorism, the spread of extremist ideology, transnational crime and piracy hamper the development of the African continent. Many countries face the consequences of the so-called Arab Spring, which has destabilised the situation in the whole of North Africa. Numerous terrorist organisations, including ISIS, al-Qaeda, Boko Haram and Al-Shabaab, operate in this region, as well as in the Sahara-Sahel area, in the vicinity of Lake Chad and in the Horn of Africa. In this connection, we consider it important to expand joint efforts for combating terrorism and extremism. We are planning to invigorate contacts between law enforcement agencies and security services of the Russian Federation and African countries, to coordinate efforts and exchange relevant information. We are determined to continue training military personnel and law enforcement officers for African countries at specialised Russian institutions. Today, military personnel from 20 African countries are studying at higher education institutions of the Russian Defence Ministry. Our military and military technical cooperation is aimed at strengthening African armed forces’ combat capability. Russia has MTC agreements with over 30 countries, which we supply with a wide range of armaments and equipment. Part of these supplies are provided free of charge. Our African partners participate actively in Russia’s military forums and exercises, where they can see samples of up-to-date weapons and military equipment, and learn how it is used. Last year, 11 African countries took part in the 2019 International Army Games. The number of those who want to join is growing. We believe that trade, economic and investment cooperation is an important element in Russia’s relations with African countries. Last year, Russia’s trade with Africa amounted to over $20 billion. Moreover, it doubled over the past five years. Russian exports are gradually becoming diversified, and their structure is changing towards non-resource deliveries. Russian companies have worked successfully in the region for a long time, mostly, of course, in such areas as geological exploration, mineral extraction, energy, oil and gas At the same time, steps are taken to establish cooperation in high technology. Many of those present here took part in the Russia-Africa Economic Forum yesterday, where a lot of innovative ideas on the development of Russian-African trade and investment cooperation were voiced. Let me repeat that education and training are also an important area of cooperation. At present, over 17,000 Africans are studying in Russia. The annual quota for state-financed openings at Russian universities is almost 2,000. We will think on how we can increase this number. Prospects for interaction in medicine and healthcare are also good. The Republic of Guinea, for instance, has a successful research centre for epidemiology and the prevention of dangerous infectious diseases. We believe the creation of another such centre in Africa should be considered. We also thought that it is beneficial to complement our bilateral interaction with the expansion of contacts with the leading African organisations. Yesterday, at a meeting with the heads of African regional associations and the chair of the Eurasian Economic Commission board, we discussed the prospects of mutually beneficial cooperation between Africa’s integration structures and the Eurasian Economic Union. A memorandum of understanding between the Eurasian Economic Commission and the African Union Commission will be signed today. Colleagues, We all are interested in giving Russia-Africa interaction a true system-wide and complex nature. We have already discussed the idea of creating the Russia-Africa partnership forum, within which, as we spoke about with some of our colleagues during dinner, regular meetings at the level of heads of state could be held, say, once in three years. I think this is a good idea and we will support it. In between the summits, we could plan annual political consultations between foreign ministers. I think you will support this initiative. We will continue to develop Russia-Africa relations in this format. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank all of you. It is now my pleasure to give the floor to the President of Egypt, current Chairman of the African Union and Co-chairman of our Summit, Mr el-Sisi. President of the Arab Republic of Egypt, African Union Chairman and Co-Chairman of the Russia–Africa Summit Abdel Fattah el-Sisi el-Sisi Abdel Fattah President of the Arab Republic of Egypt : Thank you very much, Your Excellency, In the name of Allah, the Merciful, the Compassionate. Mr Putin, President of the Russian Federation, Your Excellences, presidents and heads of government of African countries, Chairman of the African Union Commission, Moussa Faki Mahamat, ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank President Vladimir Putin and the friendly people of Russia for their warm welcome in Sochi and hospitality shown to all African delegations since the moment they arrived in Russia. I would also like to thank the Organising Committee for their excellent preparation of the first Russia-Africa Summit, which starts today. I am happy to speak at this important forum held in Russia, which is one of the main actors on the global stage and a sincere friend of the African nations. Russian-African cooperation has come a long way since the middle of last century, when Russia stood by the African countries fighting against colonialism and made a significant material, logistic and spiritual contribution supporting the national freedom fight of the African people. Russian-African relations continued to develop in the difficult international and regional situation in the 1990s, thus reaffirming that the African and Russian people were united by their cooperation and common interests in the fight against the challenges they face. This only reaffirms the effectiveness of Russian-African cooperation, which reflects people’s hopes in the conditions of our dynamically developing world. Today we are holding the first Russia-Africa Summit, which is themed “For peace, security and development.” We are meeting nearly three months after the Extraordinary Summit of the African Union , which convened in Niamey on July 7 to discuss mechanisms for the implementation of the African Continental Free Trade Area agreement. The agreement is one of the pillars of the Agenda 2063 development concept aimed at promoting regional integration, enhancing the African countries’ international competitiveness and attracting foreign investments in the spheres of priority significance for Africa, such as the industry, energy, agriculture and ICT. Over a period of the past decade, the AU countries formulated the goal of sustainable economic development and integration. African countries are doing their utmost to strengthen the role of the state in economic development. Ladies and gentlemen, We are aware of the problems that are hindering stabilisation in Africa. Our ambitious plans to end all the conflicts in Africa by 2020 could be one of our most important decisions. This will also be an operating priority for the African leaders next year. In this context, I would like to note the importance of supporting the AU’s framework policy for the economic reconstruction and development of the conflict-affected countries, as well as for supporting the Cairo-based Post-Conflict Reconstruction and Development Centre and its plans to strengthen the economy of the countries that are not involved in conflicts and to strengthen the role of government agencies in ensuring stability and peace. We reaffirm our commitment to contributing to conflict mediation efforts. Our activities are based on the principles of international law and non-interference in the internal affairs of states. We call for a peaceful settlement of all the current conflicts. We would like to note once again that the fight against terrorism as an evil that is spreading into our countries, which has affected both African nations and the friendly Russian people, is the main priority of our efforts to strengthen peace and security at the regional and international level. Ladies and gentlemen, The African continent is open to cooperation with all its partners. We hope that at this summit we will able to lay a solid foundation for the future Russian-African cooperation for the next few years, while reaffirming the importance of expanding its scale in all areas, including politics, the economy, trade, culture and education, under the long-term partnership principle and while retaining the national sovereignty of African countries over their resources. Ladies and gentlemen, As our summit focuses on the issues of peace, security and development, I would like to note that Egypt has decided to hold a forum on peace and sustainable development in Aswan on December 11–12, 2019. This forum is called on to become a regional and continental venue that would bring together political leaders, representatives of civil society and partners in initiatives aiming to enhance peace and development. Indicatively, Aswan, the symbol of Egypt’s African identity, will host this forum. We will also discuss matters of enhancing peace and sustainable development on the continent. I would like to use this opportunity to invite President of the Russian Federation Vladimir Putin and my brothers, heads of African states, to take part in the work of this forum. In conclusion, I would like to express hope and to reaffirm that our summit will pass decisions meeting the interests of the people in Africa and Russia and facilitating the future development of Russian-African cooperation. Thank you for your attention. May the peace, mercy and blessing of Allah be upon you. Mr President, Thank you very much for your speech and for preparing this forum, for your active participation and for your contribution to addressing the region’s problems and to the entire international agenda. And it is a very good idea to hold the forum that you have just mentioned. It goes without saying that we will support this important event. 
Friends, First of all, I would like to welcome all participants in the first Russia-Africa Summit and the Russian-African Economic Forum. We are glad that our African colleagues displayed great interest in these events. Delegations of all African countries, over 40 percent of which are represented by top officials, arrived in Sochi. Heads of executive bodies of major African regional organisations are also attending the summit. I am sure that our joint efforts will provide a powerful impetus to the development of friendly relations between Russia and African nations and will allow us to raise them to a new, more advanced level, relying on strong traditions and long experience of our cooperation. Russian-African cooperation is based on a rich and eventful history and much in it is linked with the development of independent African countries. Our country resolutely supported Africans in their struggle for independence and sovereignty. Our specialists helped African states overcome poverty and develop their economies. They took part in the construction of industrial, agricultural and social facilities, including hospitals and schools. They also helped Africans create and equip combat-capable forces. Many Africans studied at our universities. Today, tens of thousands of African students are acquiring a wide variety of professions in Russia. They are getting ready to become engineers, doctors, economists and lawyers, as well as civilian and military experts. See also All news about the trip to Sochi. Russia-Africa Summit Let me emphasise that Russia intends to continue its active cooperation with African partners based on the principles of equality, friendship and mutual respect. We have always supported and will support the striving of African states to conduct independent policy and resolve African problems themselves. We will continue doing all we can to facilitate the efforts of our African partners aimed at settling local crises, countering terrorism, extremism, cross border crime and drug trafficking and other current challenges and security threats. Friends, I am confident that the results of the Russia-Africa summit, the Economic Forum and other meetings and contacts in Sochi will facilitate the further expansion of versatile ties between Russia and African countries. I would like to suggest a toast to the heads of the delegations of African countries and leaders of African regional organisations that are present here. Let’s drink to the success of our joint efforts to develop full-scale mutually beneficial cooperation, wellbeing, peaceful future and prosperity of our countries and peoples. Friends, thank you very much for being with us in Sochi in Russia today. Thank you.
Mr President, heads of state and heads of government of the African countries, friends, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to offer my heartfelt greetings to all of you, participants and guests of the Russia−Africa Economic Forum timed to coincide with the first ever summit of Russia and African states. All countries of the African continent are represented here today, by top officials, politicians and, of course, business leaders. Top managers of almost 2,000 Russian and foreign companies are taking part in this forum. The topic of this plenary session,
Russia and African states have traditionally enjoyed friendly, time-tested relations. Our country has played a significant role in the liberation of the continent, supporting the struggle of its peoples against colonialism, racism and apartheid. Later on, we helped the Africans to protect their independence and sovereignty, gain statehood, form the basis for national economies, and create capable armed forces. Important infrastructure facilities, hydroelectric power plants, roads, and industrial plants were built by Soviet – and subsequently Russian – specialists. Thousands of Africans received quality professional education at our universities. This is well remembered by many current African leaders, who value our support. We too keep the memory of those pages of history. Today, the development and strengthening of mutually beneficial ties with African countries and their integration associations is one of Russia's foreign policy priorities. We will shortly be witnessing an unprecedented, Indeed, interest in developing the relations with African countries is currently visible not only on the part of Western Europe, the US and the PRC, but also on the part of India, Turkey, the Gulf states, Japan, the Republic of Korea, Israel, and Brazil. This is not accidental, as Africa increasingly becomes a continent of opportunities. It possesses vast resources and potential economic attractiveness. Africa's infrastructure needs are increasing, and African population is rapidly growing, as are its demands. All of this, in turn, calls for an expanded domestic market and greater consumption. Of course, where there are promising prospects for investment and profit, there is always competition, which, unfortunately, at times goes beyond the bounds of decency. We see a number of western states resorting to pressure, intimidation and blackmail against governments of sovereign African countries. They hope it will help them win back their lost influence and dominant positions in former colonies and seek – this time in a ”new wrapper“ – to reap excess profits and exploit the continent's resources without any regard for its population, environmental or other risks. They are also hampering the establishment of closer relations between Russia and Africa – apparently, so that nobody would interfere with their plans. We certainly take note of these factors and draw conclusions. We are not going to participate in a new ”repartition“ of the continent's wealth; rather, we are ready to engage in competition for cooperation with Africa, provided that this competition is civilised and develops in compliance with the law. We have a lot to offer to our African friends. This will be discussed, among other things, at the forthcoming Summit. And, most certainly, we, together with our African partners, are committed to protecting our common economic interests and defending them against unilateral sanctions, including by reducing our dollar dependency and switching to other currencies in mutual settlements. I am confident that the Africans are by no means interested in the escalation of confrontation between the major powers in the continent. On the contrary, they would like the rivalry to give way to cooperation in addressing urgent challenges for Africa, such as terrorism, crime, drug trafficking, uncontrolled migration, poverty, highly infectious diseases. I would like to reiterate that this is the kind of work Russia is willing to participate in. Our African agenda is positive and future-oriented. We do not ally with someone against someone else; and we strongly oppose any geopolitical ”games“ involving Africa. Indeed, the Soviet-era model – with its pros and cons – proved quite effective at the stage of the development of statehood in African countries. We still continue rendering financial assistance to African states. While in the past, these decisions were primarily politically motivated, now they are part of the humanitarian assistance. As far as granting loans is concerned, today these loans are market-oriented. For example, a decision was made to grant a loan to Egypt in the amount of $25 billion for the construction of four power units for El Dabaa NPP. This is specifically market-oriented lending. Let me point put that in the post-Soviet period, at the end of the 20 th century, Russia cancelled $20 billion of African countries' debts to the Soviet Union. This was both an act of generosity and a pragmatic step, because many of the African states were unable to service those debts. We therefore decided that it would be best for everyone just to start our cooperation from scratch. There are other schemes that are currently applied to some of the remaining debts. For instance, intergovernmental agreements with Madagascar, Mozambique and Tanzania are being implemented in the framework of the debt-for-development swap programme. We expect that Ethiopia's remaining debt to Russia will be settled under similar conditions. The relevant draft agreement is currently being elaborated. Let me also remind you that Russia makes contributions to international programmes of assistance to Africa in the framework of the UN Development Programme, the World Food Programme , and the International Civil Defence Organisation. Sometimes in-kind support is provided. Since 2011, WFP offices in Africa have received 258 KAMAZ trucks. Another batch of 75 trucks has been shipped most recently. At the same time, the use of new financial mechanisms does not rule out the practice of granting loans, but rather provides for a wider and more diversified toolkit in support of development. It contributes to establishing mutually beneficial cooperation between Russia and African countries. All these issues will be examined at the Economic Forum on October 23‑24. We are ready to hear proposals from our African partners and share our considerations. Indeed, the traditions of our military technical cooperation are deeply rooted. It was developed back at a nascent stage of establishment of African states and played its role in the fight of peoples of the continent for their independence. And our African partners highly appreciate it. Today, we have agreements on military technical cooperation with more than thirty African countries which we supply with a wide range of military equipment. Of course, part of it is being transferred at no charge. But this is common practice followed by all leading world countries. It is encouraging that military technical partnership continues to evolve vigorously. What’s more, African countries often initiate such cooperation themselves, because they understand that one should be able to protect its independence and sovereignty, including from extremist and terrorist groups. It is yet another incentive to cooperate with Russia, which has abundant experience in fighting terrorism, including in Syria. Our African partners actively participate in military-technical fora and military exercises organised by Russia, in the framework of which they get acquainted with Russian advanced weapons, military hardware and experience of its use. For our part, we will further contribute to training military personnel of African states and take part in training African peacekeepers. Humanitarian assistance is being provided to Africa by many world countries, yet none of them – be it the US, France, China or any other country – has fully resolved all of its social problems, including in healthcare, education and culture. Russia too provides humanitarian assistance to African states, but not by reducing the amount of funding for its own programmes. After all, good traditions of charity and support in times of need are a hallmark of our people. I will give a recent example. Russia, as many other states, provided aid to the African countries affected by tropical cyclone Idai in April 2019. Russia sent humanitarian supplies to Zimbabwe, Malawi and Mozambique, i.e. large tents, blankets and food products weighing about 30 tonnes for each country. We continue to take an active part in efforts to provide comprehensive assistance to Africa. Russia is involved in the UN World Food Programme’s school meals project valued at $40 million, which has been implemented in Mozambique since October 2017, and in the project to introduce modern technology and equipment for disinfection worth up to $15 million in Madagascar. We also provide assistance to our African friends in healthcare development, as dangerous communicable diseases respect no borders. Russia was among the first to react to Ebola haemorrhagic fever outbreak, having allocated $60 million to combat it. There is now a microbiology and epidemiology research centre in Guinea. Russia contributed $20 million to the World Bank programme to implement the global malaria control initiative. And such examples are plenty. I would like to emphasise that Russia's participation in fighting poverty, dangerous illnesses and other global threats, as well as reduction of potential risks ”at distant approaches“ are fully in line with our national interests. An important element of Russia's interaction with African countries is regional security cooperation. Our Summit's slogan – For Peace, Security and Development – is not accidental. Steady progress is not possible without resolving these problems.
Your Majesty, I am pleased to be in the hospitable nation of Saudi Arabia again. I remember my visit to your country in 2007. Back then, I had the pleasure of seeing you and talking with you. You spent much time with our delegation, and we talked a lot. Russia attaches particular importance to expanding friendly and mutually beneficial ties with Saudi Arabia. Bilateral relations were established over 90 years ago in 1926, the dawn of the state of Saudi Arabia. The Soviet Union was the first foreign country to recognise the young Kingdom of Hejaz and Nejd led by your father. Your Majesty, we appreciate your personal contribution to promoting multifaceted Russia-Saudi Arabia cooperation. Your first ever visit to Russia in October 2017 was quite effective. The agreements reached back then are being successfully implemented. Trade and economic cooperation is getting stronger. Last year, trade grew by 15 percent to over $1 billion, adding another 38 percent in January-July. The intergovernmental commission is working effectively, and its most recent meeting was held in Moscow in June. Your Majesty, the Russian-Saudi Economic Council, which you just mentioned, has been effectively created and its members include representatives of major businesses of our respective countries. Today, we plan to take part in the council’s first meeting. During the talks, we will review the key aspects of our cooperation, outline plans for the future and, of course, exchange opinions on international matters. Saudi Arabia will chair the G20 next year and will play an important role in addressing key issues on the global economic agenda. I had a very productive discussion with Crown Prince Mohammad bin Salman at a summit in Osaka, Japan, in June. We agreed, in particular, to extend the OPEC+ agreements in order to stabilise the global oil market. We see Russian-Saudi coordination as an indispensable element for ensuring security in the Middle East and North Africa. I am convinced that without your country, it is hardly possible to achieve a just and long-term settlement of any problem in this region. I hope that this visit will give an additional boost to our cooperation across all areas. We have drafted an extensive package of joint documents to be signed during this visit and acted upon later. Thank you. See also Details on visit to Saudi Arabia October 14 − 15, 2019
It is my pleasure. I think it is a good tradition to meet with a country’s media before visiting it. As for the visit to Saudi Arabia, we attach great importance to it. It is, in a sense, a return visit after the visit by King of Saudi Arabia, Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques, to Russia. It was the first, historic visit. We consider it historic, and it really is. There is one more thing that I believe is important to note. In Soviet times, relations between Saudi Arabia and the Soviet Union were at a rather low level. In recent years, the quality of our relations has changed dramatically. We consider Saudi Arabia a friendly nation. I have very good relations with both the King and the Crown Prince. We have been making good headway practically in all fields. I will start with the economy. There is still a lot to be done, but we have set a good pace. Last year it was up 15%. In the first six months of 2019 growth was as high as 38%. We are considering some good joint projects. Our Russian Direct Investment Fund and the Public Investment Fund of Saudi Arabia have jointly established a $10 billion platform. $2 billion have already been invested. Work is underway on other projects, and some promising and interesting projects have already been implemented. We also consider it possible to operate on the territory of Saudi Arabia. One of our companies is exploring the possibility of building a petrochemical facility with investments of more than $1 billion. It is SIBUR Holding , Russia’s largest company in this sector. We are fostering a partnership in the trust-based, sensitive area of military and defence cooperation. We have been negotiating for a long time. Equally important are our joint efforts to resolve the regional crises. In this regard, I would like to emphasise the positive role Saudi Arabia has played in resolving the Syrian crisis. We are working especially closely with Turkey and Iran, as you all know. But I believe that without Saudi Arabia’s contribution towards a Syrian settlement, it would have been impossible to achieve a positive trend. Therefore, I would like to express our gratitude to both the King and the Crown Prince for this constructive approach. I am confident that my visit will help to build up the momentum both in developing bilateral relations and enhancing cooperation in international organisations. Mohannad Khatib : Mr. President, thank you very much once again for giving us the opportunity to record this interview. Your visit to the Middle East will possibly have an impact on the United Arab Emirates as well. What do you think about strategic cooperation between Russia and the UAE, and how will this cooperation evolve? Can this cooperation play a certain role in strengthening collective security, considering the Russian initiative to establish a collective security architecture in the Gulf region, especially in the area of the Strait of Hormuz? You have just mentioned the strategic nature of our cooperation. Indeed, we signed a strategic partnership memorandum last year, and we see the United Arab Emirates as one of our very close and promising partners. The signing of this document was not a coincidence, it demonstrated the quality and nature of relations between the United Arab Emirates and the Russian Federation. I have to say that, as is the case with Saudi Arabia, our partnership is vigorously developing in all areas. Of all the Gulf countries, we have the highest level of trade, $1.7 billion, but of course, this is not enough, we are well aware of that. So currently, we are working with the UAE’s sovereign fund. The joint platform is worth approximately $7 billion. $2 billion have already been invested, work is underway on other projects. And of course, it is safe to say that the United Arab Emirates greatly contribute to resolving regional crises, and play a stabilising role in the region. It is no great secret that we maintain regular contacts with the leadership of the United Arab Emirates. There is even an established tradition, a practice to compare notes regarding different topics. In my opinion, we are doing it for the benefit of both parties, and the region as a whole. Salam Musafir : Mr. President, in the more than 10 years of your presidency some harsh, dramatic developments have taken place in the Middle East, and the statehood of several countries has been undermined, namely Iraq, Libya. We see that this could be the fate of other states as well. We see what happened in the Syrian Arab Republic, what catastrophic events took place there. Now, many members of the Arab public think that Russia can really bolster its role in the region. You surely know that our network, RT Arabic, covers Russia’s foreign policy as well. First of all, during the crises in Iraq and Libya, I was not in office. But this is not the main reason. The thing is that, as is commonly known, in the case of Iraq, the United States circumvented the United Nations Security Council. The US had no mandate to use force against Iraq. Actually, I was President at that moment. Anyway, Russia did not support the invasion. Russia, France and Germany did not support the US plans regarding Iraq. What is more, we warned about the potential adverse implications, and that is exactly what happened. The initial euphoria of military victories soon gave way to despondency and pessimism about the consequences of the victory. Because all Iraqi government institutions were destroyed, but no new institutions were established, at least in the beginning. On the contrary, the radical forces got a boost, and terrorists groups became stronger. Many former officers of Saddam Hussein’s army and security service agents resurfaced and joined the ranks of what later evolved into ISIS. So, those who led and supported this campaign had not considered the ramifications. We do expect that there will be some positive developments in Iraq, and despite some internal problems, the country will continue to move forward. Although there are still a lot of problems to deal with, we are perfectly aware of that. As for Libya, the chaos wrought by the military operations still prevails, but in this case, our Western partners played a trick on us, using the vernacular term . Russia voted for the corresponding Security Council resolution. After all, what does this resolution say, if you read it carefully? The resolution prohibited Gaddafi to use aviation against the rebels. But there was nothing about allowing any air strikes on Libyan territory. But that was what actually happened. So, basically, what happened there was done circumventing the UN Security Council. And we are all aware of what happened next. There is still chaos and confusion; a flow of migrants went through Libya to Europe. Gaddafi had always warned about that, he said that he stopped African migrants from going to Europe. As soon as this ‘wall’ was gone, they started pouring into Europe. And now they have what they were warned about. But that is probably not even the main issue. Most importantly, it is destabilising the entire Middle East region. In advance of his visit to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates Vladimir Putin answered questions from Al Arabiya senior presenter Mohammed Tomaihi , Sky News Arabia senior presenter Mohannad Khatib and RT Arabic Public and Political Programmes Department Head Salam Musafir. As for Syria, we came to Syria to support the legitimate government, and I would like to emphasise the word ‘legitimate.’ It does not mean that they do not have internal problems; I am ready to talk about it in detail later. It does not mean that the current leadership is not responsible for what is going on there. They are, but it does not mean that we were to allow terrorist organisations to capture Syria and to establish a terrorist pseudo-state there. We could not allow militants to move to former Soviet republics. We do not have hard borders or a visa regime with them. We could not allow militants to infiltrate Russia from there. We already had such an experience and we know what this might lead to. We still remember what happened in Russia’s North Caucasus region not that long ago. This is why we made a decision to support the legitimate government. We have not just provided assistance to the legitimate government. We proceed from the premise that internal political contradictions must be and can be resolved by political methods only. That is why we were so adamant. I am glad to see it happening now as part of the political process, as a result of the establishment of the so-called Constitutional Committee. This idea was conceived right here, in Sochi, at the Syrian National Dialogue Congress that brought together various political forces, including the opposition and the government. And here Syrians agreed among themselves to set up a constitutional committee that would work on changing the Syrian Constitution or drafting a new one. We have trodden a hard, arduous, and long path to form this committee. Now it has finally been formed, on behalf of the government, on behalf of President Assad, and on behalf of the opposition. I expect that in the coming days, it will take its first steps in Geneva under the auspices of the UN. I have just said it and I will repeat, regardless of who stood behind the incident, we condemn any such actions. That is exactly what I said before, and I really meant it. There is no other way to interpret this. As I said, we have an unprecedented level of partnership, I would even say friendly relations with Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. But Russia will never be friends with one country against another. We build bilateral relations that rely on positive trends generated by our contacts; we do not build alliances against anyone. This is my first point. Secondly, you and your audience understand, I believe, that Russia and Iran are neighbours; this is a factor we always bear in mind. Thirdly, Iran is a major regional power, an ancient country with a rich cultural legacy. If we want to build good relations with a country – and I believe every country in the region would want to have good relations with each other, no one seeks a standoff or, perish the thought, any conflict. No one does. I know that there is no one looking for a showdown and that is true for both Saudi Arabia and the UAE. If we want to set a positive agenda, we need to acknowledge that our partners have their own legitimate interests. I am not weighing in on what is legitimate and what is not. I just want to underscore that it is only natural that a big country like Iran, which has existed on its territory for thousands of years has its own interests. Persians and Iranians have lived here for centuries. And we should respect those interests. Of course, it is debatable what is legitimate and what is not, which interests are legitimate and which cross the line. However, you need to have dialogue to understand each other, to puzzle out all the nuances, intricacies and issues. Without dialogue, you cannot solve any problem. That is why I think I can share the concerns of the UAE and Saudi Arabia, but in the case of bilateral issues, it is up to them to resolve them. As for Russia, we will do everything in our power to create the right conditions for positive change. Russia has cordial relations with Iran and is on very good terms with our Arab friends. Back in the Soviet times, we did not have any particularly deep relations with Saudi Arabia, but we were truly close with almost all the Arab countries. The Soviet Union was on very good terms with the entire Arab world. Today we are back to the same level of partnership. Therefore, if we put to good use the cordial relations that we have with Iran, the Arab world, Saudi Arabia and the UAE, I think we can come up with something that would be of interest to everyone. Previously, I mentioned the positive role that we play in Syria. It is true that we – Turkey, Iran, and Russia – work hard, shoulder to shoulder, to achieve positive results. However, it would have been impossible without support from Saudi Arabia, and we all understand that. And, of course, without assistance from the UAE as well. It means that, despite acute contradictions, there is still something that brings us together towards a common goal. You just need to find such a goal and then apply concerted efforts to reach it. That can create the right setting for the normalisation of relations between the countries in the region. During interview with Al Arabiya, Sky News Arabia and RT Arabic. There is the JCPOA or the Iran nuclear deal, which specifies certain limits and commitments for Iran, and Iran has accepted them. Let us be frank here, Your questions seem to be linked, but still deal with separate issues. Our cooperation within OPEC+ is one thing, while regional security and stability and our proposals is a different one. First, if anyone thinks that seizing tankers and attacking oil infrastructure can in any way affect cooperation between Russia and our Arab friends, Saudi Arabia and the UAE, that they can undermine or break down our cooperation with OPEC+, then they are profoundly wrong. On the contrary, we will forge ever closer ties because our main goal is to stabilise global energy markets. Technically, we need to cut global reserves to some sensible level, so that these reserves do not affect prices. We have made some good strides and whatever we have managed to achieve has served not only oil producers, but also consumers. Neither producers nor consumers want high prices, rather we all want stability in the global market. Let me be straight with you, all that has been done under the leadership of Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman. Overall, those were his initiatives, and we just backed them. Now we see that we did the right thing. We need to respond to any attempt to destabilise the market. Russia will certainly continue working with Saudi Arabia and other partners and friends in the Arab world to counter any attempts to wreak havoc in the market. Now let us turn to Russia’s initiative to stabilise the situation in the Gulf region. We put that initiative forward some time ago. We proposed to establish some sort of an organisation that would bring together the countries of the region as well as several other stakeholders, the US and the EU, to name just a few. This organisation would serve as a platform to discuss crises and all kinds of pressing problems. Some have already voiced their support; others say it is too early to launch such an initiative. And the reason for that, by the way, is the serious contradictions between regional powers. From my point of view, these deep contradictions call for such a platform, so that countries could at least sit at the negotiating table. As you may be aware, sometimes it is not the negotiations that matter, but a handshake. A handshake can mean a lot. The role of mediator is not a rewarding one. I believe that our partners in Iran and Saudi Arabia do not need any mediation. Since we maintain very friendly relations with all the countries in the region, including Iran and the Arab states, such as Saudi Arabia and the UAE, we could certainly help relay some messages between the parties, so they could hear each other’s position. But since I personally know the leaders of these countries, I am perfectly sure that they have no need for any advice or mediation. What you can do is maintain a friendly conversation with them and present some ideas from a friend’s perspective. I am convinced that as highly intelligent people they listen and analyse everything they hear. From this point of view, yes, we could play a positive role in the process, to some extent. Yes, that is exactly what he said. He said that Iran had nothing to do with this. We met “on the sidelines” of an international summit. It was the summit of the Eurasian Economic Union, an organisation we created with a number of ex-Soviet states. A few months ago, the Eurasian Economic Union and Iran signed an interim agreement on a free trade area. We have a free trade area agreement with Singapore and Vietnam, and we are also working on one with Israel and Egypt. The Eurasian Economic Union has enjoyed successful cooperation with many states across the globe. Iran is about to join this process, and we discussed these prospects just recently, on the sidelines of the summit in Yerevan, Armenia. Believe it or not, we do not know. I asked the heads of the Foreign Intelligence Service and the Ministry of Defence the very next day. We do not know. I will refrain from any further comments as to who should know in order not to hurt anyone’s feelings, but I can say that we do not have any definitive information regarding the incident. There is always hope. Do not ever give it up. I can only agree with you that all the forces deployed illegitimately inside any sovereign state – in this case Syria – must leave. This is true for everyone. If Syria’s new legitimate government chooses to say that they have no more need for Russia’s military presence, this will be just as true for Russia. Right now, we are discussing this openly with all our partners, including Iran and Turkey. We spoke about it with our American partners many times. And I will be as open with you as I It is a difficult question, and it is a question that only Syrians can answer. I hope that they do so not by taking up arms and fighting a war against their own people, but through negotiations, in this case, as I said, in Geneva. The very first step along this path is to work on the country’s Constitution, whether by amending the existing Constitution or drafting a new one. In either case, it must protect the interests of all the ethnic and religious groups. People need to know that they live in their own country and that it protects them by law. This must be equally true for Sunnis and Shia, for Alawites and Christians, because Syria has always been a state with many religions, and it could pride itself on this. Only insane people could have started a deranged, purging campaign, killing other people, as these terrorists did in Syria. Again, it will not be easy; it will be a difficult process, but I believe it can work. Do you know why I feel positive about it? People are returning home. We are talking thousands of people. They are returning from abroad and from other Syrian provinces. They are coming home. This is a sure sign of the trust they have in the situation we have today; they trust the government and its guarantees, and they trust the guarantor states. I am happy to say that Syrians welcome and trust Russian troops and Russia’s military police. The military police units deployed there are doing a good job. They are mostly Muslims from the North Caucasus. And the local residents trust them and feel free to ask them for help and protection. I have reports of such cases. I am happy to say all this, but in order to have long-term peace, people need to find a way to settle things between themselves. The worst peace is always better than the best of wars. I must say that I do not have any Twitter account or anything, so I do not follow anyone there. Of course, I get reports from my staff from time to time. The opinion of the President of the United States always matters; it is always very important for many parties and for the world overall, but I do not follow him personally. You work for Russia Today , don’t you? Well, it is because of people like you that Russia will be accused of meddling in the election, because you said just now that Trump could be re-elected. They will say, “Gotcha! This is Russia interfering with the election campaign”. Jokes aside, we all know what President Trump says about Russian-American relations and how he talks about them. We know that during his previous campaign, he called for relations to get back to normal, but unfortunately, nothing has been done. But we do not hold it against anyone because we can all see what is going on in the American domestic political scene these days. The domestic political agenda prevents the incumbent president from embarking on a drastic improvement of relations between our countries. In any case, we will work with any administration to the extent it is willing to work with us. However, we cannot help but feel concern over overall global security and strategic balance. This is obvious. In 2002 , the United States withdrew from the ABM treaty, which, I would like to reiterate, was the cornerstone of the entire global strategic security system, because it imposed limits on the missile defence systems of our countries. Do you see the point? The point was to make it clear that neither party can ever win a nuclear war, should it happen. That was the whole point. The United States withdrew from the treaty in order to secure some serious strategic advantage for themselves, thinking that they might shield themselves from a threat, unlike Russia. It would leave Russia in a very vulnerable position, while the US would be protected by an ABM system. Back then, I told our US partners that there is no way of knowing how well such a system would work and so we will not waste tens of billions on it. But strategic balance must be maintained, which means that we will develop offensive weapons that will defeat any ABM system. And we have developed them, and everyone knows it by now. The ABM systems are designed to intercept ballistic missiles, i.e. missiles that follow a ballistic trajectory whereas what we did was we enhanced and improved ballistic missiles significantly and developed a new weapon that has no rivals in the world. We have hypersonic missiles that follow a low trajectory rather than a ballistic one. No one has hypersonic missiles today, except us. Of course, the world’s leading powers will one day develop them, sooner or later. But we will be able to come up with something new by that time. I know what projects our scientists, researchers, designers and engineers are working on right now. Unfortunately, this has led to an arms race of sorts. But that is what has happened. It is a fact. Sadly, this is true. Now, recently, the US also withdrew from the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty. It think it was a mistake, too, and that they could have gone a different path. I do understand the US concerns. While other countries are free to enhance their defences, Russia and the US have tied their own hands with this treaty. However, I still believe it was not worth ruining the deal; I believe there were other ways out of the situation. The New START Treaty is actually the only treaty that we have to prevent us from falling back into a full-scale arms race. It serves to further reduce and limit strategic offensive arms, that is to limit the entire range of strategic weapons, I wish it does not happen. In any case, Russia will be the least affected party because, as I said, we already have the next generation of weapons, and these are unprecedented, with unmatched capabilities. In that sense, we have done our homework. We do not need to rush now and can calmly think of what could be done next. Military spending also plays a role here. It may or may not come as a surprise to you but Russia ranks seventh in terms of defence spending. Saudi Arabia is third. The US military spending totals 716 billion, if I am not mistaken, and next year they asked for 750 billion. Next comes China with around 177 billion, followed by Saudi Arabia, with 59 billion, right? Trailing behind are the UK, France, Japan, with 48.1 billion, based on the data I have, and Russia is only seventh with 48 billion. However, we have unmatched military capabilities. What has made it possible? It comes as a result of focused research on priority areas, and the credit here goes to our specialists, their ability to identify those areas, mobilise resources. It has been made possible thanks to research institutions, production know how, fundamental knowledge and competences. Therefore, an arms race is a bad thing, and it will not be good for the world. However, we will not be dragged into exorbitant budget spending games. We do feel it, certainly. We have always felt it and voiced our concerns. We were told, “Don’t be afraid. You are not the target and there is nothing to fear. NATO is changing, it is no longer a military bloc, it does not have belligerent intentions”, and stuff like that. In the meantime, the North Atlantic Treaty remains in place, in particular Article 5, if I am not wrong, that guarantees military support to other members, etc. It is a military bloc. As its infrastructure is moving closer to our borders, we are not happy about it. There is another trick. I think it is clear to everyone that NATO is just a US foreign policy tool. Europe is aware of it. Take the French president. I do not need to make anything up. Another trick is that once countries join NATO, they have no say over the arms that are installed on their territory. This was the case in Romania with missile defence. Poland will soon get it, too. It will be really close to our border. It is certainly a threat to us. We see it as an attempt to neutralise our strategic nuclear capabilities. However, it is clear their efforts are doomed to failure. I believe experts now see this as well. Now that we have the cutting edge systems that I mentioned earlier, these moves are no longer a threat to us. I do not want to say what we really think about it. Still, there is nothing positive about it. So yes, we do see this as destructive activities that escalate tension. There is nothing good about it. This does not depend on us or our actions. It is up to all the stakeholders whether they want to see someone in the process or not. Incidentally, we have very good relations with Israel as well. Almost 1.5 million Israelis come from the former Soviet Union. Israel is almost a Russian-speaking country. The Russian language is often heard in shops everywhere. We do care about what is happening in Israel. However, we have a principled position on the Israeli- That is exactly his role today, and he has been quite successful. Indeed, we have very good personal ties. He has been behind many of our initiatives, and these projects are being put into practice. As I said, he came up with OPEC+, he endorsed the joint platforms of our investment funds. Two billion worth of investment has been made by now. He raised the need for broader defence cooperation, and we have a good plan of joint activities in that area. This is already happening. Hopefully, our collaboration will continue to expand going forward. As for Saudi Arabia’s role in the region, it is definitely one of the key countries there. It does have an impact based on its capabilities and its position in the energy market. Saudi Arabia can be safely called a global player since it has an impact on the world energy market, on world energy in general. This is why cooperation with Saudi Arabia, its King and Crown Prince bin Salman is very important, and we will develop our relations going forward. It is not about the name of the Russian president, it is about our national interests. It is in the interests of the Russian and other nations of the Russian Federation to nurture relations with the Arab world. It has always appealed to Russia with its enigma, culture, opportunities and potential. I have no doubt that Russia is set to boost the pace of its interaction with the Arab world in the years to come. Clearly, the region is not in a state of stability. We all understand it; we can see it with our own eyes. But all things pass. I hope it will be over one day. It will not get better quickly on its own, if you just leave things as they are, without attempts to improve the situation. Russia will do all it can to make sure things get back to normal and as soon as possible. We do not think you can and should handle the situation ‘from above’. As I said, we have many friends in the Arab world. It is time to get Syria back into the Arab family, to re-instate it in the Arab League. We will work hard to bring it back to normal and to help our friends. However, the pace of improvements will ultimately depend on the people who are responsible for the situation in their countries. I am convinced stabilisation is inevitable and I wish it happens as soon as possible.
Your Majesty King Abdullah, Mr Aliyev, Mr Tokaev, Mr Duterte, friends, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to welcome you all in Sochi at the annual meeting of the Valdai Club. According to tradition, on this platform, we try to put aside current political problems, even diplomatic discussions, and strive to discuss the long-term perspective in a historical, cultural and philosophical context and to look into the future and outline it. This time, the hosts have come up with a truly inexhaustible and, I would say, fascinating topic which is the East and the role of Asia as the world’s largest and most populated region. Relations between Russia and the Asian states, which have always been of particular importance to us, I believe, are of interest to everyone. The nature of Russia’s relations with Asia is dictated not only by today's realities, but by history as well. India and China, Egypt and Iran, Turkey and Japan, the countries of Central and Southeast Asia are heirs to great ancient civilisations, which gave humankind unique knowledge and technology, as well as discoveries in medicine, mathematics, culture and the arts. Asia has always aroused special feelings among intellectuals and creative people, it seemed a little mysterious and mystical, and was considered a source of spiritual strength and wisdom, perhaps not always fully understood, but invariably interesting. In Russia, the bright colours of the East inspired many of our writers, poets, artists and musicians, specifically Pushkin, Rimsky-Korsakov, Arsenyev, Vereshchagin, Kandinsky and Roerich. The Russian people, and not only Russians, know these names. Today, Asia, throughout its vast reach from the Maghreb and the Middle East all the way to East and Southeast Asia, is regaining its natural place in international affairs, which is commensurate with its great heritage and today's undoubtedly vast and growing potential. The positions of the Asian states are becoming stronger in all areas, but mainly in the economy. The region already accounts for over a third of the gross world product. Living standards are improving at a higher pace than the global average. The most advanced technology is being introduced. The unprecedented scale of integration processes and globalisation are drawing both individual countries and entire adjacent sub-regions to Asia. While demonstrating impressive examples of progress, the Asian nations still preserve their unique features and traditions. They remember their roots and prove in their forward progress that the principles of state sovereignty do not contradict openness and globalisation, that sustainable development can be based on independence and self-sufficiency rather than their mandatory renunciation, and that growing national economic and humanitarian potential requires political identity. Naturally, having effectively and wisely used the opportunities of globalisation and having become economic leaders, the Asian states are striving to play a bigger role in world politics. This is an absolutely natural process. They uphold their own opinions on key international issues, treasure their independence and hope that their objectively increasing influence will be recognised. We believe this is only fair and meets the realities of today and tomorrow. Incidentally, at one time Asia’s awakening, as it is called, and the national and cultural revival of its states, played an enormous role in the democratisation of international ties. Today, it is obvious that global problems cannot be resolved without Asia. Of course, it is possible to try to do this with momentum and based on past experience, but the legitimacy, and most importantly, the practical value of such approaches, which are presented as global and universal, will be questionable. The world has become multi-polar and, hence more complicated largely owing to the Asian countries. But, as I have said, multi-polarity as such is not a cure-all. Nor does it mean that urgent problems will disappear by themselves. The authors of the annual Valdai Club report insist, and we have just heard this, that we have entered an era with no world order whatsoever. This has been practically voiced right now. Yes, such a scenario is indeed possible. But it is fraught with many threats, we are all aware of that. I would like to hope that however complicated the relations between countries, however dangerous the legal lacunae might be, such as in nuclear and missile weapons areas, the world order, based on the key role of international law, will be transformed, but it will remain. We will all be working to protect it. A different way is obviously fraught with global calamities for practically all of humanity. The world system is undoubtedly multi-faceted and complicated and unprecedentedly interconnected at that. Everyone has their own objective interests that do not always coincide with those of others, this is also evident. But there is a feeling of common responsibility. Ultimately, I hope, no, actually, I do not doubt that there is also common sense, a striving for security. This is why we cannot do without a systemic world order. But we also need both flexibility and, let me add, non-linearity, which would not mean a rejection of the system but the capability to arrange a complex process rooted in realities, which presupposes the ability to consider various cultural and value systems, the need to act together, dismissing stereotypes and geopolitical clichés. This is the only way to effectively solve the challenges on the global, regional, and national levels. We have such examples before our eyes. Those of you who attended the 2015 Valdai Club meeting will apparently remember that at virtually the very same time the decision was taken on Russia’s operation in Syria. Let me be straightforward, not everyone, including the experts in the audience back then, believed it could bring a positive result. On the contrary, they were very sceptical about it, and many of them asked questions about why it was necessary. They asked if we understood what sort of a hornets’ nest we would get into ,whereas some foreign partners, I do not mean those experts present here, I mean just foreign partners with whom we collaborate in the global arena, were also trying to interfere, to resist. But I would like to draw your attention to the essence of what has been done, and above all, of course, I mean what has been done for our country, as I represent its interests. We defeated the terrorist international that was actually winning on Syrian territory, and we prevented the return, the infiltration of hundreds and later, perhaps, thousands of armed cut-throats into our country and neighbouring countries with whom we have a visa-free regime, our borders are transparent. Most of Syria was freed from terrorists within several years, and the level of violence has drastically decreased. In conjunction with our Astana format partners and with the support of the UN, we managed to launch an intra-Syrian political process and to establish close working contacts with Iran, Turkey, Israel, Saudi Arabia, Jordan and other countries of the Middle East, as well as the United States. Colleagues, you will agree that it was difficult to even imagine such a complicated diplomatic alignment with the participation of very different states with very different emotions towards each other even a few years ago. But now this is a fait accompli, and we managed to do it. We think the Syrian settlement can become a model for resolving regional crises where diplomatic mechanisms will be used in the vast majority of cases. The use of force is an extreme and forced exception. Indeed, in Syria, we were faced with an attempt to create a terrorist quasi-state with an actual – I am saying this without any exaggeration – an actual terrorist army. Occasionally, many new and chronic problems and crises look too tangled and even approaching them is a problem. But, I repeat, now is the time for outside-the-box steps and actions. In Syria, Russia and its partners managed to do a lot while adhering to and following norms of international law, respecting sovereignty and thinking primarily about the life, safety and interests of the people. I am convinced that these approaches can be used to resolve other existing problems in the world, including in Asia, such as for example, the situation on the Korean Peninsula, which has long been in a clinch. In this regard, notably, as soon as the United States decided to have a direct conversation with the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, without preliminary formalities and conventions, abandoning the usual, sometimes very rude, even insulting, rhetoric, the hope for a peaceful settlement immediately appeared. Of course, we understand and see that there are still many unresolved problems and a long way to go. But there is movement in the right direction. We must give credit to President Trump’s courage and ability to take outside-the-box steps. Indeed, for many decades, US presidents ignored the DPRK and saw it as an outcast. Mr Trump was able to take a historic step, overcome the “demarcation line” of misunderstanding and alienation, meet with Kim Jong-un and begin the negotiating process. We have replied many times to this and similar questions. Large-scale military operations are over. I am saying large-scale military operations because local hotbeds of terrorism still exist. However, regardless of the result military operations cannot achieve a final settlement. Therefore, for the time being, it is necessary to deal with issues of political settlement and this is what we are persistently doing. At any rate, we are creating the conditions that will make it possible to resolve deep-rooted political issues by political means. We have done a great deal for the formation of the Constitutional Committee. Incidentally, the idea to establish it was voiced here in Sochi, during a large-scale event that was attended both by representatives of the Government and practically all opposition forces. At that event Syrians themselves agreed to set up the Constitutional Committee in order to adopt a new Constitution or introduce amendments to the existing one. This was followed by a rather long period of the committee’s formation. I must say that we worked very hard to ensure the committee’s formation. Now we are looking forward to the beginning of this constitutional process, to the work of this committee in Geneva under the UN aegis. You see, there are already different interpretations of this concept. May I say a few words about our concept? Our concept is not meant to create new blocs such as Europe or North Atlantic after World War II. Today in Asia, I think, ASEAN is the central organisation and there is a structure for various organisations and platforms around this central ASEAN organisation. There is ASEAN +1 and so on, such as the meeting of ASEAN defence ministers. If such a network structure of various organisations is created and they interact with each other, it can be called anything. If an attempt is made to create some kind of a bloc-based organisation, I believe, first, this is un-Asian to begin with and is at odds with the current state of affairs in Asia. Second, it’s unlikely to be feasible, because I know the sentiment of many of our friends in Asia, and they do not want to join any blocs against anyone. They want to create a network of cooperation in various areas, as I said today, in order to, move forward together taking into account each other's interests and seeking and finding compromises. They do not want to be involved in confrontation between any states, and even more so they do not want to be part of any blocs. This is the first part. The second part is about trying to contain China. I think this is impossible by definition. Anyone trying to do so will realise it’s impossible, and will certainly only hurt himself in the course of such an attempt. In any case, I consider this possible scenario to be destructive and harmful. We should focus on joining efforts to create an environment of friendly cooperation and to search for common security systems. This is something we should work on together, including, of course, India, which is one of the countries closest to us in the world and especially in Asia. Let’s start with the second part of your question. I think there is this link because confrontation between the largest and most influential countries in the region is bound to affect the entire situation there, including Syria. I know that the leaders of Saudi Arabia, which I am going to visit soon, and the leaders of Iran wish peace and all the best for the Syrian people. We urge them to be guided by this noble motive and do everything they can to avoid using Syrian territory as an arena for confrontation. I am hoping that if and when our partners realise this they will act under this approach. They will see that apart from confrontation there is also an opportunity to cooperate for the same common goals. However, I You said, even France has already done this. I don’t understand this remark. Why “even”? France is a great country and a permanent member of the Security Council. It thinks in global terms and offers global solutions to global issues. There is nothing surprising about this. As for Russia, I will explain our position again. Look, Japan has presented the Indo-Pacific development strategy. Russia and other states actively develop contacts in the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation, which has earned a very good reputation. It started with simple goals like border delimitation with China after the Soviet Union. Everything went very well, and so we went further. Now it has new members, and many countries in the region want to join it. China’s One Belt One Road initiative has already been mentioned here. We also talked about the Eurasian Economic Union. They are very close to each other in spirit and in objectives and we see that all this is compatible and can be carried out. I think if we pool the efforts of the already established agencies, organisations and even concepts and create an integrated network, we can arrive at what I have repeatedly said – a large Eurasian partnership. Can all this be instituted any time soon? Hardly. But it is quite possible to create favourable conditions for cooperation. Later it will be possible to draft organisational formats and mechanisms for common actions and cooperation. But if we strive for this democratic cooperation with consideration for each other’s interests and respect for each other’s peculiarities, I believe we will achieve the development result we all want. Successes are there for everyone to see. First, we enjoy an unprecedentedly high level of trust and cooperation. This is an allied relationship in the full sense of a multifaceted strategic partnership. This is reflected in the economy. We are increasing our trade at a fast pace. As you may be aware, last year it reached $108 billion, although we had only planned to reach this number two years from now. Now, we will start moving to the $200 billion mark. The trade structure is diversifying. Of course, energy accounts for over 70 percent of our exports, but this is natural. We have the product, and China needs it. This does not mean that we do not engage in other industries or other areas of economic cooperation. We have already built four units of the Tianwan Nuclear Power Plant and are working on four more units. This involves a major, simply huge amount of work. We are working on a wide-body long-range aircraft and a heavy-duty helicopter. This project will be completed, I have no doubt about it. We are actively cooperating in outer space, and expanding our ties in agriculture. We cannot even cover the needs of China in soybeans. They are ready to buy from us as much as we can produce, but we are not ready for it. Here is a All of us are always close to God to the same extent and He will decide where we deserve to be at the end of our lives on Earth. But, of course, the situation has not improved. It has worsened after the United States’ withdrawal from the INF Treaty. This is clear to everyone. Now we are waiting for the next move. Moreover, I believe that the United States tested a ground-based intermediate-range missile that was covered by this Treaty shortly after it announced its decision to withdraw from it, indicating that the United States had long since been working on it. Technology like this can’t be developed in a couple of months. This means they had been working at least several years on this missile. As for the rest, they just looked for a pretext to pull out and they found it. I don’t believe it was a credible pretext because there were no grounds whatsoever to accuse Russia of violating anything. On the contrary, we were repeatedly told that the Aegis system could not be used for launching land-based intermediate range missiles. If you believe that our television channels – it may sound odd but even the state-run channels have an independent editorial policy – present Ukraine in a disparaging way, I agree with you. If that’s how it is, then it is wrong, we shouldn’t present our neighbour, our closest neighbour, and without exaggeration a brotherly people, in a disparaging way. This may concern the policies of the incumbent authorities, not the country or its people. If you see it this way, there is something wrong with our programmes, they should highlight that. And now regarding the new leader’s efforts for a settlement in the southeast of the country. I do not know how strong are those who are against a settlement, especially based on the Minsk agreements. Thus the public’s interest in a settlement is obvious. I think Mr Zelensky won the election so convincingly primarily because of that interest. People in Ukraine are waiting for this issue to be resolved. And if he has enough political courage and strength to complete it, I think he will assert himself as an honest politician, brave and capable of pursuing the decisions made. I think he is sincerely willing to do that, it is his sincere conviction, at least his striving. It is hard for me to say if he is able to stand up to those who oppose the process, but we do see some hesitation. It seems inevitable that he will need to look for compromise, come to terms with the whole nation, with all members of society regardless of their point of view. However, he still has to follow up on election promises he gave to the majority of the Ukrainian people. Tatiana Kastoueva- What did she do? Tatiana Kastoueva- As for the uniformity of approaches and evaluations, we will probably never reach this. Indeed, experts in various fields who somehow try to answer the question about the causes of climate change do not give unambiguous answers to the causes of climate change. There are different opinions, I have heard them. Some say there is some global change in space that affects the Earth, so from time to time huge changes like this take place on our planet. I sailed along the Lena River in our country and saw high banks with deposits containing the remains of obviously ancient tropical mammals, which lived in tropical seas. I am talking about the Lena River, its stretch north of the Arctic Circle. It means back then the climate there was like this. Well, were there any anthropogenic emissions at the time? Of course, not. You see, there is no answer. Just the same, my position is that if the human race is responsible for climate change, even in the slightest degree, and this climate change has grave implications, and if we can do something to, at least, slow down this process and avoid its negative consequences, we must spare no effort. This is our position. Despite all disagreements, we will support the international efforts to combat climate change. Indeed, we have practically ratified the Paris Agreement and are committed to implementing it. You said we hesitated or argued about it. There will always be room for doubt or disputes. But look at the obligations that we undertook and those undertaken by our partners. We are committed to cutting greenhouse gas emissions by 70 or 75 percent by 2050. By the way, the European Union has undertaken to cut the same type of gas emissions by 60 percent. We have approved a national environmental programme. It sets forth in detail what we must do and how we must do it complete with the deadlines. We have approved 12 federal programmes under the national project to work to change the situation regarding the environment. Gas emissions in 12 of the largest metropolises in our country, where they affect people’s lives and have a negative impact on the environment, must be reduced by 20 percent. We have adopted a programme to deal with waste dumps – not only with primitive rubbish dumps but with hazardous waste as well. We have adopted a programme to extend protected nature areas by five million square kilometres. We have a whole set of measures that we are not just intending to carry out but we have already started to implement and they have already been made law in our country. So, we are determined to move, together with our partners, along this path that is laid down in the Paris Agreement. As for the hydrocarbons, I think it was yesterday that I said the structure of the Russian energy sector is one of the world’s greenest. The nuclear power and hydropower industries in our country account for a third of the energy sector and gas accounts for 50 percent of the remaining two-thirds. We have one of the greenest energy sectors in the world plus the capacity of our forests to absorb . So, we understand the threats that everyone, including us, are exposed to. The warming rate in Russia exceeds that in the rest of the world by 2.5 percent. We are aware of this. I do not think that Chinese need our advice. If they are saying they do not understand something, this means they do not want you to know they actually do. Maybe it is an advantage for them to make you think they do not understand certain things. In fact, I have very close and friendly relations with them, without exaggeration; we have always said this, both in public and behind the scenes. We have friendly relations with the Chinese leader, Mr Xi Jinping. China pursues a global-level policy. They understand everything, they know everything and are ready to respond to any scenario. As regards the developments in the United States – how can we cooperate with them when they are so engaged in their domestic political affairs? Obviously, this is always the case during an election campaign, and the United States is no exception. But this domestic political race has got a little over the top. I do not think this has ever occurred in the history of the United States before. But life goes on, and we should factor in the current domestic situation there. But it is simply not possible to steer clear of such a global power as the United States. We intend to do as much as the US itself is ready for.  What administration – the US or French? The French administration? But who is the President of France – me or Mr Macron? He is the person to put things right. Why ask me about this at all? First, I have not heard what he said and I know nothing about it. If some subordinate officials interfere with his work, he should just cut them down to size, or replace them. Bring your supporters and associates into your administration, and you will work as a team and achieve efficient results. First about what I said two years ago. You know, I have to admit I was only plagiarising. Those were not my own words because experts around the world are saying that Artificial Intelligence will completely reshape the world and our approaches to solving pressing issues and problems of the future. Entire industries will change; some will become obsolete and new ones will emerge. New jobs will be required. Old professions will die out and we need to understand how to address resulting social problems such as the redundant workforce, etc. Healthcare will change completely. Artificial Intelligence will affect countries’ defence capability because those who have this technology will have an advantage that is perhaps incomparable to nuclear weapons. What has changed? The pace of change becoming faster. Can Russia make any kind of contribution to the global efforts in developing Artificial Intelligence or, for example, genetics? Of course, it can. Our software developers are working everywhere in the world and working successfully. Historically, we have always had strong mathematics education – and the discipline at the root of Artificial Intelligence is first and foremost mathematics. There is technology but mathematics is still at the core. So what are we doing? We have an entire state programme aimed at developing AI, just like in China, the United States and some other countries. We are building up our efforts. We believe that we must certainly not be slow or lag behind, and we have every chance to excel in this area. It would still be the best thing if efforts of the humankind are consolidated; if there are common rules for handling new technologies. Common rules of communication in this area are extremely important for the world to be stable. I do not want to characterise the Stalin regime now. You know, we all know about the repressions, camps, losses among our people, our citizens during those repressions. This is a black page in the history of our country. But saying that Stalin started the war is utter cynicism. As if it was the Soviet Union that attacked Germany at 4 am on June 22, and not the German troops crossed the Soviet border, violating the existing non-aggression treaty, attacked the Soviet Union unilaterally without declaring war. Let us not forget the sad outcome, the tragic outcome, The existing system of international relations, international institutions and structures took shape following WWII as its result. The situation around the globe is changing drastically, both in Europe and on the American continent, with new rapidly growing and developing players, as well as in Africa, and, of course, Asia. For the existing system and its institutions to last, it has to correspond to the realities of the ever-changing world. I believe that we must not destroy what has been created in the past decades, but should gradually transform it and adapt it to these realities, with due consideration of the growing power and prospects of Asia's development in general and certain Asian countries in particular. They certainly have the right to and must take the place they deserve in global politics and international affairs.
Friends, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to heartily welcome all of you at the Russian Energy Week Forum in Moscow. See also Greetings to participants and guests of Russian Energy Week International Forum October 2, 2019 Meeting with heads of relevant agencies and international energy organisations October 2, 2019 Meeting with OPEC Secretary General Mohammad Barkindo October 2, 2019 As usual, the forum’s participants and guests include heads of the world’s leading companies and industry associations, ministries and agencies, as well as respected professionals and experts. All of you determine the future of the global energy sector. It is good to see a record number of participants this year. This means that the forum is gaining in popularity. It has attracted 10,500 participants, over 200 companies from 80 countries. We are confident that this interest is based on a desire to cooperate and to build up trust, which serves to boost the technical and technological progress of the fuel and energy sector and to ensure the world’s energy and environmental security. We see that the scale and interdependence in global energy is growing alongside its vulnerability, and that instability in some parts of the world affects supply and demand worldwide. We have just talked with the OPEC Secretary General about this. It is especially important in this context to make use of all the available mechanisms to balance the market and find mutually acceptable solutions based on respect for the interests of all sides. A good example of this dialogue is the OPEC+ oil production cut pledge, the first ever case of cooperation between OPEC and non-OPEC countries. By working together, we have achieved a result that satisfies both oil producers and consumers. The deal has created conditions for the further development of the oil sector and for launching new long-term projects. Russia remains a responsible party to the OPEC+ deal. We are convinced that cooperation will continue to develop. I am referring not only to oil production volumes but also to close cooperation in the introduction of new hydrocarbon production, processing and transportation technologies and the resolution of environmental issues. Analysts believe that energy consumption will be growing in the next few years, primarily in the countries of the Asia-Pacific Region and in the traditional markets, such as Europe. Reliability and predictability of supply are most important in this respect. It is necessary to follow rules that are free of politically tainted and dishonest competition where restrictions on energy companies or their partners are introduced under far-fetched pretexts. But even under these conditions we demonstrate a responsible, businesslike approach in relations with our long-standing partners in Europe. We are convinced that regardless of how emotions and passions boil, or what dirty tricks are used against us, it is necessary to be guided by fundamental principles of pragmatism, reliability and a vision of a common future. We intend to act, and will act, in this vein. Russia ensures stable, failsafe gas supplies to Europe. We continue implementing large infrastructure projects, such as the Turkish Stream and NordStream-2. The marine section of the Turkish Stream is completed and work continues on the surface sections. NordStream 2 We met yesterday. We spoke about energy and cooperation in energy supplies, and we discussed the entire range of issues in Russian-Iranian relations. It is well known that Iran possesses great potential and is a major player on the world energy market but, unfortunately, due to the US Administration’s sanctions policy, Iran cannot take full advantage of its potential. In my opinion, this is harmful for the world economy and the world energy industry in general because it restricts the stable performance of this sector, which is extremely important for the world economy. When there is no stability, there is no investment, or at least no proper volume of investment. Prices are unstable, which in the long run hurts both energy producers and consumers. However, Russia supports Iran in every possible way and seeks to minimize the negative risks not only for Iran but also for the world energy market. We have certain agreements with our European partners that want to build up relations with Iran one way or another, including in the sphere of energy. Let us remember that resolution of all these issues is closely associated with global politics and security issues. Iran’s commitment to the principles of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action is a very important and critical issue, something that is on the world political agenda today. We strongly rely on having these agreements retained and on eventually normalising the situation around Iran, which will positively affect the world energy sector. You had better ask President Rouhani and President Trump. Our position is that dialogue is always better than confrontation. This was graphically illustrated by a firm, well-considered, entirely pragmatic and correct decision taken by president Trump in a meeting with the North Korean leader Kim Jong-un. A more or less marked end to the tensions followed immediately. They have a long way to go before resolving these issues, which we are well aware of, but still this is a move in the right direction. The same can be said of direct contacts between Iran and the United States and between the Iranian President and the US President. As far as I know, a similar attempt was made by France at the UN General Assembly in New York. Unfortunately, there was no meeting because Iran believes it cannot engage in this dialogue as it is not on an equal footing given the sanctions imposed on it. It seems to me that Iran definitely wants to bring the situation back to normal, including normalising its relations with the United States. We condemnactions like these, no matter who is behind them. This is a destructive event that had serious implications for the global energy market. However, I do not think those who really planned and carried out these actions achieved their goals. Yes, indeed, there were market fluctuations. Indeed, Saudi Arabia sustained heavy losses – they had to cut oil production by 50 percent, as they could not refine the oil after the refineries were damaged. But these were short-term fluctuations. You and I know that the global markets recovered almost within a week, and today the price of a barrel of Brent crude is below $60. Therefore, these actions did not produce the effect that those who implemented them were seeking; however, these actions hurt the global economy, consumers included. I would like to repeat that we condemn these actions but we are against shifting the blame to Iran because there are no grounds for this. Yesterday we also discussed this issue with President Rouhani. His position is that Iran does not hold itself responsible for this incident as it has nothing to do with it, and Iran believes it is somewhat strange that some countries put the blame on them while there is no evidence for this and the international investigation of the incident has not been completed. US intelligence serves the country’s foreign policy. But they have not provided any proof so far. We spoke to the Saudi authorities, and I personally talked to the Crown Prince. As I understood from what he said, Saudi Arabia is seeking unassailable proof regarding the involvement of whatever country in this incident. So far, no one has produced hard evidence. Let us be guided by facts, rather than emotions.  Those who don’t want these projects to be implemented are saying this. The competitors of Russia and China who want to introduce certain disagreements into our relations, including in this sphere, are saying this. And this is nonsense. We have conducted complicated talks over many years. In effect, our Chinese friends are tough negotiators, but we have found an optimal solution that meets the interests of China and Russia. Thirty-eight billion of deliveries a year is a large volume. The Power of Siberia pipeline can pump even more, and China needs greater volumes. For this reason, we are now negotiating the possibility of building a west-bound version of the same route. We are moving ahead gradually and calmly. We can see the needs of the Chinese economy. Mr Dudley has just noted the pace of Chinese growth. Yes, the country is adjusting its growth rates. In my opinion, such adjustments are something natural, considering the overall state of the global economy. In fact, it is also slowing down a bit. Over the past five years, such rates have totalled over 3.5 percent per year, on the average . And the forecast is that such growth will persist, but that it could be at a slower pace. The rates are subsiding, and this is an obvious fact. Therefore China is no exception here, but the country is growing much faster than all other countries. China needs energy resources, and Russia has such resources. This is an absolutely natural partnership, and it will continue. Our relations with China have never developed in the context of relations with anyone else, including third countries. We never direct our relations with other countries against someone else. Instead of opposing someone, we always support something, including our interests. Of course, we cannot help but take into account global developments, these things are absolutely obvious, but we are working in line with positive, rather than negative, developments. Of course, all the current developments in trade and economic relations between the United States and China cannot help but influence the global economy one way or another, as well as growth rates in China and even in the United States itself. The United States is also affected by its own anti-China measures. And, of course, we are taking all this into consideration. But global and Chinese economic growth continues despite all these negative developments, and this amounts to absolutely natural cooperation, and it has absolutely natural development prospects. In this context, we even comprehend rising energy-resource consumption volumes in China. We understand this, the Chinese side understands this, and Chinese regions that are hard-pressed for energy resources also understand this. Specialists have calculated all this long ago, and cooperation continues in line with this objective data. Of course, it is not the case yet, you are absolutely right. But we believe that common sense and fundamental interests, I would like to emphasise this, it is the fundamental interests of the United States that will play a role, and relations between Russia and the United States will return to normal. But it is not yet the case, it is true. We can also see that President Trump’s position, in any case, as it is publicly formulated, is not changing towards Russia. He wants to restore bilateral relations, and we welcome this, and we will use every opportunity to ensure that these plans are realised. We got dragged into many political squabbles in the United States even before I met President Trump. Firstly, we have never been close friends, and it is still the case. We have a good working relationship, as I see it, stable and trust-based relations, but the close relations between President Trump and me never affected the internal political squabbles in the United States. I would like to emphasise this again. All the scandals within the United States sparked before I even met Mr Trump, so what does this closeness have to do with them? There was no closeness. And now we can see something else. We can see what is happening in the States. The slightest pretext is being used to attack President Trump. The most recent one is Ukraine, and the related battles over relations with Ukraine and with President Zelensky. Where do we come in? This once again confirms that we had nothing to do with it in the first place, and they were just looking for reasons to attack the newly elected President. It became clear that there was no conspiracy between Russia and the Trump team and Trump himself. This was proved even by Mr Mueller during his inquiry. But now they have found another reason. It involves Ukraine. I repeat, this only underscores that Russia has nothing to do with this at all. So, there was no closeness, and there is none still. And this does not affect the internal political processes in the United States in any way. Highly likely. Oh yes, we have already heard that. He failed to find any evidence of our collusion with Trump in the past, but expressed concern that we might do this in the future. That is funny. Or it would be funny if it were not so sad. Because everything that we see now in US domestic politics destroys Russian-American relations. And I am also sure it is doing harm to the United States as well. As a result of what happened – and for no reason whatsoever, as we can see now, we are witnessing it – we were compelled to close some of our projects with ExxonMobil. ExxonMobil would have been making a good profit now working with Rosneft, implementing major projects that would benefit both companies as well as the global energy sector, but we had to close them. Now, who benefited from that? Nobody, because everyone lost. Because political motivation or using domestic political instruments, extending them to international relations, or worse, to the economy, does no good inside the United States and is detrimental to international affairs. I’ll tell you a Well, we have problems of our own. We are busy addressing our domestic problems, which are our biggest priority. We are tackling huge tasks in the economy and social policy, and we have formulated national projects in individual sectors. We are investing unprecedented funds in the attainment of our national development goals. Do we have time to interfere in any foreign elections? We are closely following the developments in the global economy and politics, of course. Our colleagues have talked just now about global oil reserves. They used to amount to over 300 billion, or more precisely 301 billion tonnes, but the current figure is only 236 billion. It is a concrete figure that has a bearing on us. We are talking about the development of the global economy. As I said, it has increased by some 3.5 percent over the past five years. This is what is of interest to us and what we pay attention to. Our largest partner in Europe is Germany, but, overall, the EU is the largest trading partner for us. We are interested in what will happen there. We see that the German economy has reported negative growth for two quarters in a row. I believe the Volkswagen scandal is mostly to blame for this. It is true that the economy is seriously influenced by developments in the German automobile industry. This is what interests us. As for elections, we have no interest in them at all. We will work with anyone who is elected, with any president who is elected by the American people. If they elect Mr Trump, we will work with him. If not, we will work with whoever is elected. Despite all the problems and difficulties, Mr Trump has implemented a tax reform, which has maintained the United States’ economic growth at a high level. US imports have increased. Under President Obama, Russian-US trade dropped from $30 billion to $20 billion and even $18 billion. Over the first two years of President Trump’s term, it grew to $25 billion. This is what we look at and take into account. Of course, we also look at the players in the political infighting in the United States, but interfering in it? It is not worth the effort. What do we need it for? It is not in our interests, and it is against the principles and practice of Russia’s foreign policy. We have not made a single, absolutely not a single destructive move in relations with the United States. If you disagree, say so, but please substantiate your opinion with facts. We have taken an unprecedented… This is not a correct interpretation of what I have said, or rather it is a very loose one. This is how the problem is interpreted by those who want to believe that this is how we formulate our policy, that we do it as you said. I did not say what you have just said. I did not. Where did you get it? This happens very frequently, when one notion is replaced with another. First the replacement, and then criticism based on this false information. I said in an interview with The Financial Times that the liberal model has no right to claim domination and to believe that it is the only correct model in the world. No, the world is much more diverse; it is developing comprehensively, and one and the same model cannot be forced on everyone without distinction. This is what I said then, and I am ready to repeat it here. Take Asia. Look at how it is developing, how it is growing. Look at the Asian countries’ history and culture. How can Western patterns as they are used in the United States and Europe be applied to Asian development? No, this would stifle any development there. There would be chaos, just as it happened in Libya and Iraq when those western countries attempted to reproduce their liberal pattern there. And it could have been even worse. That is what I said. I did not say that the liberal model has no right to exist. Did I say that? No, of course, not. If it works well, let it work. But it has lost all flavour even where it still works, and the enforcement of this model often comes across resistance even in the countries where it has been widely used for years. Take some European countries. Why are they talking about the migration crisis all the time? The migration crisis is a result of this liberal model. They simply take everything too far. It would be better to invest in the developing economies, so as to cut short the growth of poverty. Let us advocate this process in the World Trade Organisation. Let us stop subsidising agriculture in the West and open up our markets to agricultural products from the developing countries. Let us invest the necessary funds in them, giving the people an opportunity to work and live in their home countries, making a living for their families. You do not want to do this? Then you will have migrants. The liberal model does not allow for stopping the inflow of migrants. And the result is discontent among the people and a growth of extreme views and far-right movements. This is what I said. I still believe this.  We have long been ready for negotiations with our Ukrainian partners on this issue, but they have been stalling, not forming the necessary bodies that would be authorised to conduct negotiations on this matter. There are several development scenarios. I may disappoint you, but I do not share the general enthusiasm about Greta Thunberg’s action. You know, it is a good thing when young people and teenagers focus on today’s serious problems, including environmental issues, and they certainly need to be supported. But when others use children and adolescents for their own purposes, it is a practice that deserves condemnation. It is especially wrong to try to make money like this. I am not claiming that this is the case, but it certainly should be monitored. No one seems to have explained to Greta that the modern world is complex and diverse and rapidly developing, and people in Africa or in many Asian countries want to live at the same level of prosperity as in Sweden. But how can this be achieved? By making them use solar energy because Africa gets so much sun? Has anyone explained to her how much this would cost? A colleague was just talking about oil. Everyone probably knows that oil is the number one source in the global energy balance and it will retain its advantages as such over the next 25 years. This is what international experts say. True, its role will gradually diminish; true, renewable energy will grow faster. This is all true, and we must strive for this. But is this technology affordable for emerging economies and developing countries right now? Barely, but people want to live there just like in Sweden, and this cannot be stopped. Explain to them that they still have to live in poverty for 20–30 more years and their children will be living in poverty – explain this to them. These things do require a professional approach. Of course, emotions are inevitable, but still, if we want to be effective, we must be professional. I am sure that Greta is a kind and very sincere girl, but it is up to adults to try to avoid leading teenagers and children into extreme situations; it is up to adults to protect them from unnecessary emotions that can destroy a personality – this is what I wanted to say. Overall, of course, we should definitely support these ideas concerning the development of renewable energy sources, only we need to rely on reality. And, pushing this process – I have just explained in my remarks how we do it in Russia – we not only signed the Paris agreements and are completing their implementation, but we took steps, domestically, to limit emissions and develop alternative sources. We do this, among other things, through tax regulation, offering incentives for the development of alternative energy sources. We also continue to develop gas as the purest hydrocarbon. But, again, using children and adolescents to achieve even such noble goals, exerting such strong emotional pressure – I consider it wrong. Listen, I have not worked all my life in my current capacity. My previous employment taught me that any of my conversations can be made public, and I always say things based on this assumption. So, when someone tries to stir up another scandal in connection with my meeting with President Trump in Helsinki, No, I have never made such requests to anyone, and I will never do this for several reasons. First, it is pointless. Relations should be normalised because both sides realise that normalising relations would benefit them both, not because someone asked something. This is my first point. Second, I hope there will come a realisation that there are no grounds for these sanctions. They are gone, just gone. After the Mueller report, it became clear that they do not exist. Therefore, it is not a matter of interference, but a matter of someone trying to revive the policy of restraining the development of their potential competitors. That is all there is to it. Moreover, this is done by methods that are harmful to the United States. What we now see happening between the United States and Ukraine is partly reminiscent of the recent events related to Russia's alleged interference in the elections. But this is the second edition from a somewhat different perspective. Let us wait and see where this goes. This has nothing to do with us.
Events Trilateral summit on settlement in Syria September 16, 2019 20:00 Ankara President of Russia Vladimir Putin, President of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdogan Erdogan Recep Tayyip President of Türkiye and President of Iran Hassan Rouhani Rouhani Hassan took part in a trilateral summit on the settlement in Syria. The meeting started with a photo op. The leaders of the guarantor states of the Astana process on the settlement in Syria discussed issues related to the political process being carried out by the Syrians with the support of the United Nations, completing the formation of the Syrian Constitutional Committee and launching its work, the humanitarian situation, assistance for refugees and the restoration of the country’s infrastructure. Following the talks, the leaders of the three countries made press statements. Additional Speech at the meeting of the heads of the guarantor states of the Astana process on the settlement in Syria September 16, 2019 Press statement and answers to media questions following a trilateral meeting between the leaders of the guarantor states of the Astana process on the settlement in Syria September 16, 2019 All news about the working visit to Turkey September 16, 2019 See also Joint Statement by the President of the Islamic Republic of Iran, the President of the Russian Federation and the President of the Republic of Turkey September 16, 2019 Geography Türkiye Topics Foreign policy Publication status Published in sections: News , Transcripts Publication date: September 16, 2019, 20:00 Direct link: en.kremlin.ru/d/61540 Text version
Friends, athletes and competitors, dear guests, I would like to begin by thanking our guests for coming to Russia to participate in these competitions. My thanks to the International Judo Federation and to my colleagues, including of course, the heads of state and government who take the time to come here and enjoy this great sport. My best wishes to the winners – this is a youth tournament, and it is good that these young men and women achieve great results at such a young age. But sports in general and judo in particular have confirmed many times that to achieve real, major victories one needs to maintain ongoing progress and never stop. Therefore, I wish you all success in sports and in your lives. Your dedication and talent will definitely open up a wonderful road to the future, and sports will always be with you and help you in any of your endeavours. Good luck! See also Greetings to Third International Jigoro Kano Judo Tournament September 5, 2019 Additional Plenary session of the Eastern Economic Forum September 5, 2019 All news about the trip to Primorye Territory September 6, 2019
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, friends, A representative Russian delegation is visiting Mongolia today to celebrate with our Mongolian friends the anniversary of our common victory in the battle of Khalkhin Gol. During the bloody fighting 80 years ago, in 1939, Soviet and Mongolian soldiers and officers displayed endurance, stamina, bravery and courage. It would be no exaggeration to say that the victory at Khalkhin Gol was of historic importance. It played what would be described today as a seriously important role in preventing aggression against the Soviet Union from the East during WWII. It should also be noted that the military talent of Georgy Zhukov who later became the marshal of victory was revealed during the battles of Khalkhin Gol. Russia treasures the memory of Mongolia’s priceless support which they gave to our people during the Great Patriotic War. Mongolia did everything to help the Soviet Union. Tanks and aircraft built with the funds raised by Mongolia took part in the most important WWII battles. Next year we will celebrate the 75 th anniversary of the Great Victory. We are grateful to the Mongolian President for accepting our invitation to visit Moscow on May 9. Traditions of brothers in arms established during the fighting for Khalkhin Gol are being carefully guarded today, too. Russia and Mongolia are engaged in active military and security cooperation. They are conducting annual military exercises and developing military-technical ties. All this helps to build up the defence capabilities of our countries and promotes stability as well as peace in the region. Friends, We appreciate good-neighbourly, time-tested relations with Mongolia. Russian-Mongolian cooperation is steadily developing and covers a whole range of fields. This was also confirmed during today’s talks when we discussed many urgent bilateral issues and mapped out the horizons of our future cooperation. Out of the documents signed today I would like to mention the Treaty on Friendly Relations and Comprehensive Strategic Partnership. This fundamental document reflects our reciprocal striving to upgrade our cooperation to a new level and to jointly resolve ambitious long-term tasks facing our two countries. There’s a
Historically and geographically, Russia and Mongolia are more than just close neighbours. The peoples of our countries are united by a close and trusting relationship based on friendship and mutual respect. One of the most striking and momentous events in our common history was our joint victory over Japanese forces on the Khalkhin Gol River. Allow me to remind you that in the 1930s, the situation on Mongolia’s eastern border was turbulent, and tensions were mounting. The first major armed clashes occurred in 1935. In that context, on March 12, 1936, the Soviet Union and the Mongolian People’s Republic signed the Protocol on Mutual Assistance, which allowed for deploying Red Army units on the territory of Mongolia. In the final stage of the fierce fighting that lasted from August 20 to September 16, 1939, the Red Army defeated the invaders, fighting shoulder to shoulder with Mongol soldiers, and defended Mongolia’s sovereignty and territorial integrity. The victory at Khalkhin Gol was of great military and political importance. It became one of the main reasons why Japan did not attack the Soviet Union in 1941, and delayed its entry into World War II. This allowed the Soviet leadership to move its forces to the west at the end of 1941, which later played an important role in the battle of Moscow. We in Russia remember with gratitude Mongolia’s help during the harsh years of the Great Patriotic War. The Mongolian people sent warm clothes and food to Soviet soldiers who fought at the front, and donated their horses to equestrian units. While denying themselves, they raised funds for the Revolutionary Mongolia tank brigade and the Mongolian Arat fighter squadron. We hope that next May, President of Mongolia Khaltmaagiin Battulga will attend the celebrations of the 75 th anniversary of Victory in the Great Patriotic War in Moscow. As I have already mentioned, our countries are not only brothers in arms and friends, but we also have a rich history of mutually beneficial cooperation. This year we have many anniversaries together, including the 70 th anniversary of the flagship of our bilateral economic cooperation – the Ulaanbaatar Railway interstate joint venture. The development of Mongolia’s virgin lands with Soviet assistance began 60 years ago. Today, Russian-Mongolian cooperation is comprehensive and multilateral, and covers the political, trade, economic, investment, financial, agricultural, scientific, education, cultural and sports areas. During talks with President Khaltmaagiin Battulga, and meetings with Chairman of the State Great Khural Gombojav Zandanshatar and Prime Minister Ukhnaagiin Khurelsukh, we will discuss in detail the prospects for further promoting mutually beneficial cooperation, including the implementation of the medium term programme for strategic cooperation between the Russian Federation and Mongolia. At the end of the visit, we will sign an interstate treaty on friendly relations and comprehensive strategic partnership, which will raise our bilateral ties to a fundamentally new level. Importantly, this document, based on the 1993 Treaty of Friendly Relations and Cooperation, will have no expiration date. Expanding multifaceted ties with Mongolia is one of Russia's priorities in Asia. Indeed, bilateral trade has been expanding rapidly in recent years. Trade increased by almost 21 percent to $1.65 billion by the end of 2018 and grew by another 11.8% to $800 million in January-June. Effective work to deepen practical cooperation is being carried out through the Intergovernmental Commission on Trade, Economic, Scientific and Technical Cooperation, and through its specialised sub-commissions and working groups. In our bilateral dialogue, we are focusing on the transport and infrastructure sector and on tapping Mongolia’s transit potential. To this end, Russian Railways is planning the modernization of the Ulan-Bator Railway, which is the country’s key transport artery. Energy is another important area of cooperation. Russian companies supply electricity to Mongolia and participate in the technical retrofitting of its generating capacities. Interesting projects are being implemented or planned in both industry and agriculture. Cooperation is underway in the sanitary and veterinary spheres. The second stage of the humanitarian programme for vaccinating livestock in Mongolia was successfully completed last year, which will facilitate the access of Mongolian livestock produce to the Russian market. We are focused on environmental issues as well. Talks are underway to create a number of joint nature reserves along the border areas. This will help preserve the unique biodiversity of our common region. We continue to assist Mongolia in training national professionals. Today, about 3,000 Mongolia citizens study at Russia’s universities. Every year, we set aside 500 state scholarships for Mongolian students. With regard to cutting customs duties, a joint working group was created between the Eurasian Economic Commission and Mongolia in 2015. It is working to improve the efficiency of mutual trade, including removing barriers, improving customs administration and harmonising sanitary standards. Often, simplifying technical requirements gives a much greater boost to business than reducing duties. For me, judo is not just a sport. Judo fosters one’s willpower, a respectful attitude towards others, endurance, the ability to take a hit and get out of difficult situations with dignity. I know that the President of Mongolia Khaltmaagiin Battulga practices judo and unarmed self-defence and is an internationally recognised martial arts master. Common interests and a similar way of thinking helped us to quickly establish mutual understanding or, as they say, get on the same wavelength. Today, this helps us maintain an effective dialogue and deal with important issues of bilateral cooperation in a constructive manner, and successfully implement promising projects. We also make an effort to meet not only at political events or economic forums, but also in the stands of judo world championships.
President Erdogan, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, friends, I am delighted to welcome the participants and guests of the International Aviation and Space Salon and above all, our good friend, President of the Republic of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdogan. I am confident that all our foreign partners and, of course, our Turkish friends want to see the achievements of the Russian aircraft industry and to learn about the technical capabilities of the latest-generation equipment of the Russian Aerospace Forces, and this offers new opportunities for mutually beneficial cooperation. I would like to say that we appreciate international interest in the Russian aviation and space salon, which we see as recognition of Russia’s huge intellectual, research, technological and export potential, as well as its unique aircraft manufacturing traditions, which make Russia a leader in the global aerospace industry. We understand that the prospects of the aircraft industry largely depend on broad international cooperation, the close integration of the projects our designers and scientists are working on, and on the efficient use of production facilities. We are interested in the MAKS air show gaining further recognition as a respected platform for business exchanges, sharing ideas and signing mutually beneficial contracts. This is the 14th time that MAKS has brought together all those interested in the history, present and future of aviation and, as always, it harmoniously combines lucid research and practical content and a vibrant show. As usual, visitors will have the chance to see the products of leading aviation enterprises from around the world; I would like to highlight in particular the key aerospace corporations of China. China is a partner of the current air show. Among the innovations presented at this year’s air show, which will be of interest to both specialists and visitors, there are new promising developments for unmanned systems and for small and business aviation, as well as breakthrough projects in the civil aircraft industry such as the MC-21 aircraft, and the Mi-38 and Ka-62 helicopters. The unique historical exhibition of the legendary Soviet aircraft is sure to impress visitors. Some of the craft were found on the battlefields of World War II and restored enabling them to fly again. And of course, the MAKS programme includes a spectacular performance by virtuoso aerobatics teams and demonstration flights of the latest Russian aircraft. I would like to thank everyone who prepared the 14th International Aviation and Space Salon and those who will work hard at its venues in the coming days. I wish all the participants and guests of the air show great success, fruitful meetings and contacts and a clear sky overhead. Thank you.  See also Videoconference with the crew of the International Space Station August 27, 2019 Geography Moscow Region Tü
Dear friends, I am happy to greet the participants and numerous guests of the 2019 International Army Games. These annual competitions for military professionals, real aces and masters of the art of war from around the world, have become a remarkable tradition, a real spectacular and exceptional festival of both the beauty and power of modern technology and the trust and friendship of the people who manage it. Thousands of the best service personnel will demonstrate their art and training, their ability to clearly, efficiently and coherently solve problems and find non-standard solutions while performing the most difficult assignments. I believe that many young spectators, who are still only finding their paths in life, will be inspired by these examples when choosing their future professions. And of course, once again, the format of the Army Games themselves makes a considerable contribution to the development of international cooperation, to strengthening constructive partnerships in the interests of ensuring the security of our countries, the Eurasian continent and the world as a whole, as well as a collective response to real, not imagined, threats to stability in the world. I am certain that all of the participants of the 2019 Games will delight spectators with worthy performances and a show of determination and strength of will, and of course, respect for their rivals and military colleagues in an honest and uncompromising struggle. I wish you good luck, great results and exciting, well-deserved victories. And I wish the guests unforgettable impressions.
I would not say that we are very close but we know each other well. He was President Kuchma’s Chief of Staff, and it was in this capacity at the time that he asked me to take part in the christening of his daughter. According to Russian Orthodox tradition, you can't refuse such a request. It is always a great honour to be a godfather . I will not give a number but several people. No, no, are you serious? Certainly not. Just a few. Does she want to become an Orthodox Christian? You have to ask her. Of course. How old is she? Is she a believer? I see. Young people are different everywhere. It depends. The older generation always says that about the younger generation. Is there an American culture? They live too well. They have nothing to think about. Well, yes. Not exactly. We have a law banning propaganda among minors. It is aimed at allowing people to reach maturity and then decide who they are and how they want to live. There are no restrictions at all after this. To be honest, we do not talk so often. He has more free time than I do. But we meet from time to time, especially in connection with his efforts to get detainees released. He devotes much time to this. He also told me something about his plans on Donbass but I do not know the details. At any rate, I consider it absolutely correct that he calls for direct dialogue with the people who live in Donbass. There is not a single example in recent history when a crisis was settled without direct contact between the sides to the conflict. He says he thinks it is necessary to fully implement the Minsk agreements and I cannot help but agree with this as well. So, I know the elements of his proposals. He speaks about them in public and I agree. Not yet. After all, the recent election was clearly a protest vote. A fairly large number of people supported the newly-elect President in central Ukraine, in the east and the south. And these are all people who sincerely seek a settlement in any event. During his election campaign President Zelensky continuously spoke about his readiness to do everything to solve this crisis. And then literally just yesterday, while in Paris, I think, he said suddenly he does not believe it is possible to hold talks with what he called separatists. This is clearly at odds with what he said during his election campaign. Unfortunately, none for the time being. You know, our relationship is not easy at the moment. This is the result of the grievous events linked with the coup d’état. The other part of this story is propaganda by the current government in Ukraine, which blames Russia for all the tragic events that ensued. I think this is inevitable. At any rate, the cultivation of normal, friendly and, even more than friendly, allied relations is inevitable. I believe so. But our positions, our points of view, differ on many things. Mr Medvedchuk was born in the family of a man that was said to be convicted during the Soviet times for nationalist activities. He was born in Siberia, where his family and his father virtually lived in exile. Connection between what? The connection is that he has his own ideas about Ukraine and the Ukrainian people. For example, I believe that Russians and Ukrainians are actually one people. One nation, in fact. Of course. Look, when these lands that are now the core of Ukraine, joined Russia, there were just three regions – Kiev, the Kiev region, northern and southern regions – nobody thought themselves to be anything but Russians, because it was all based on religious affiliation. They were all Orthodox and they considered themselves Russians. They did not want to be part of the Catholic world, where Poland was dragging them. I understand very well that over the time the identity of this part of Russia crystallized, and people have the right to determine their identity. But later this factor was used to throw into imbalance the Russian Empire. But in fact, this is the same world sharing the same history, same religion, traditions, and a wide range of ties, close family ties among them. At the same time, if a significant part of people who live in Ukraine today believe that they should emphasise their identity and fight for it, no one in Russia would be against this, including me. But, bearing in mind that we have many things in common, we can use this as our competitive advantage during some form of integration; it is obvious. However, the current government clearly doesn’t want this. I believe that in the end common sense will prevail, and we will finally arrive at the conclusion I He doesn’t. That is what I am saying. Yes, of course. This is what I If so, that is good. To be honest, I don’t know. But if kit is true, that is good. If so, we can only welcome this because he and his partners in the party stand for restoring relations with Russia. How could we not welcome that? Of course, we welcome it. I have known him for a long time. He keeps his word. If he says something, he does it. Yes, this is true because he has convictions. I mentioned that his father was a Ukrainian nationalist and was convicted by a Soviet court for this. Strange as it may seem but the founders, many founders of Ukrainian nationalism advocated good relations with Russia. They said good relations were necessary for the development of Ukraine itself. This was in the 19 th century. They came out for Ukraine’s independence but said that Ukraine must preserve good, friendly relations with Russia. Mr Medvedchuk adheres to similar ideas. This is why he has convictions. I may not agree with his position on something but I always respect it. Me, too. In general nationalism is a sign of narrow-mindedness but I do not want to offend Mr Medvedchuk. Yes, but in any event, he is in the category of people who advocate independence, the consolidation of an independent Ukraine, but at the same time believe that it is easier to achieve this by pursuing cooperation with Russia. And I think he is largely right. No but I know what you are talking about. I know that the authorities headed by President Yanukovych at that time did not use the army and were not interested in giving any excuse to the opposition to use force. And, as Mr Yanukovych told me repeatedly, it did not even occur to him to use force and the military against civilians, even against those who had already taken up arms. I completely rule out that he could have done this, but those who were looking for a pretext to stage a coup could have well done it, of course. You know, while Obama is no longer President, there are certain things we do not discuss in public. At any rate, I can say that the US did not follow through on the agreements that we reached during this phone call. I will stop there without going into detail. Yes, this is no secret. I do not think that this could be interpreted as interference by Ukraine. But it is perfectly obvious that Ukrainian oligarchs gave money to Trump’s opponents. I do not know whether they did this by themselves or with the knowledge of the authorities. I do not know. I am being honest. I will not speak about what I do not know. I have enough problems of my own. They assumed Mrs Clinton would win and did everything to show loyalty to the future US administration. That is nothing special. They wanted the future President to have a good opinion of them. This is why they allowed themselves to make unflattering statements about Trump and supported the Democrats in every possible way. This is no secret at all. They acted almost in public. You know, this would be inappropriate on my part. If I said something more specific, I would have to put some documents, some papers on the table. I did not interfere then, I do not want to interfere now, and I am not going to interfere in the future. There are no rules at all. It is no holds barred. I have principles. Well, yes. Why? You mean, because of these principles? I think this is simply unrealistic. I have said so many times. To change anything. If you want to return to US elections again – look, it is a huge country, a huge nation with its own problems, with its own views on what is good and what is bad, and with an understanding that in the past few years, say ten years, nothing has changed for the better for the middle class despite the enormous growth of prosperity for the ruling class and the wealthy. This is a fact that Trump’s election team understood. He understood this himself and made the most of it. No matter what our bloggers – or whoever’s job it is to comment on the internet – might say about the situation in the US, this could not have played a decisive role. It is sheer nonsense. But our sympathies were with him because he said he wanted to restore normal relations with Russia. What is bad about that? Of course, we can only welcome this position. They had levers inside the government, but there is nothing like that here. They applied administrative pressure. It always gives an advantage in countries such as the USA, some countries of Western Europe, about 2 percent on average, at a minimum. Yes. According to experts, those with administrative pressure they can apply always have a 2 percent edge. You can look at it differently. Some experts believe that in different countries, it can vary, but in countries such as the United States, some European countries, the advantage is 2 percent. This is what experts say, they can be wrong. That is possible, depending on how it is used. In the USA? It is still going on. No, I do not mean that. I mean lack of respect for the will of the voters. I think it was unprecedented in the history of the United States. It was the first time the losing side does not want to admit defeat and does not respect the will of the voters. But this was a court decision, as far as I remember. This is what they call unscrupulous application of administrative pressure. No, I do not, as we have repeatedly said. The former President, Mr Poroshenko, staged this provocation intentionally during the election campaign. He was aware that people in the country’s east and south would not vote for him, and he used this provocation to escalate the situation and then declare a state of emergency there. I have reason to believe that he was going to declare a state of emergency in the entire country, and possibly to postpone the election as a result. Generally speaking, he was trying to hold on to power at all costs, and he was seeking any means to execute this plan. This was the regime’s death throes. As far as I remember, recently the newly appointed Chief of the Ukrainian army’s General Staff has made a statement that offers roughly the same interpretation of events but perhaps using milder language. Chief of the General Staff of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Absolutely. The Su-57 aircraft are just entering service. This is a fifth-generation jet fighter. It was the Su-27 that was mentioned. Actually, it is sad, probably, but this is common practice. US aircraft did not enter our airspace, and our aircraft did not conduct any high-risk maneuvers. But generally speaking, this is not great. Just look where the Baltic or Black seas are located, and where the USA is. It was not us who approached US borders, but US aircraft that approached ours. Such practices had better stop. This is being discussed almost openly. It was said Russia would be punished for interfering in the election campaign. We do not see anything extraordinary or unexpected here. This should be followed closely. That is the first thing. The second is I believe that we only need to negotiate how we are to live in this high-tech world and develop uniform rules and means of monitoring each other’s actions. We have repeatedly proposed holding talks on this subject to come to some binding agreement. This worries us because this is happening near our borders. This may destabilize the situation around Iran, affect some countries with which we have very close relations, causing additional refugee flows on a large scale plus substantially damage the world economy as well as the global energy sector. All this is extremely disturbing. Therefore we would welcome any improvement when it comes to relations between the US and Iran. A simple escalation of tension will not be advantageous for anyone. It seems to me that this is also the case with the US. One might think that there are only benefits here, but there will be setbacks as well. The positive and negative factors have to be calculated. No, this is not scary. Last time the situation concerning Iran was not like this. Last time nobody said anything about getting into our energy and other networks. Last time the developments were more positive. Take North Korea, they have also rolled back a bit. Trade wars are unfolding. Venezuela as well. In other words, regrettably, the situation has not improved, so there is nothing special to be happy about. On the other hand, we feel confident. We have no problems. Exactly. Absolutely spot on. Just do not put the blame on us. Lately no matter what is happening, we always get the blame. I think he is against this now, too. But life is complicated and diverse. To make the right decision it is necessary to fight for what you believe in. No, if I had been tired, I would not have run for the fourth term. The director always has the final word; after all, he is the one calling the shots. Very well. Are we done? Thank you so much. Are you going back to the States? Why? It is all right. We have seen worse. I have no idea. He is a spy, after all. He is always in hiding. Yes, I have been told that he wants to make a written request to come back. I doubt it. He has broken the ranks already. What kind of information can he possess? To be honest, I do not quite believe this. I do not believe this is the case. If they had wanted to poison him, they would have done so. After all, this is not a hard thing to do in today’s world. In fact, a fraction of a milligram would have been enough to do the job. And if they had him in their hands, there was nothing complicated about it. No, this does not make sense. Maybe they just wanted to provoke a scandal. I do not believe this. You should not. Take care of yourself. With pleasure. 
Mr President, friends, I am happy to welcome all of you to the 6 th Forum of Russian and Belarusian Regions here in St Petersburg. Regular meetings between representatives of regional and local government bodies, business communities, educators, scientists and cultural workers play a great role in developing friendly relations between Russia and Belarus. Forum co-chairs Valentina Matviyenko and Mikhail Myasnikovich, other speakers and all the participants shared their in-depth opinions, the main results of your work, discussions, decisions and cooperation plans. I want to stress that Belarus is Russia’s closest ally and strategic partner and our relations are based on the principles of neighbourliness, mutual respect and consideration for each other’s interests. Our countries are strengthening political and economic cooperation within the Union State, which is marking its 20 th anniversary this year. Russia and Belarus are largely involved in the Eurasian Economic Union and building common commodity, service, capital and labour markets. We closely cooperate within the framework of other regional organisations, including the Collective Security Treaty Organisation . I want to note that last year our mutual trade increased by almost 10 percent to $30.5 billion. Russia accounts for about a half of all Belarusian foreign trade. Our country is also the largest source of cumulative direct investment in the Belarusian economy, equal to almost $4 billion. Russian and Belarusian regions are bound by over 350 agreements aimed at expanding cooperation in industry, agriculture, construction, pharmaceuticals and transport. Quite a few interregional documents were signed during this Forum as well. We hope that their implementation will facilitate further consolidation of the Russia-Belarus partnership across all areas of focus. Friends, today’s forum is dedicated to the establishment of a common cultural space of Russia and Belarus. Of course, this is an important task with all the opportunities to pursue it. Our countries’ people have a common history and strong cultural and spiritual ties; we are proud of our common successes and achievements in different areas and remember the harsh trials and ordeals we have had to face in the past and we passed these trials with flying colours.
Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, friends, I am absolutely delighted to welcome to the Russian capital all our guests – heads of parliaments, heads of international parliamentary organisations, people’s representatives in the broadest sense of the word, politicians, scientists and experts representing a whole range of different countries. Your forum is being held for the second time and has already proved its relevance and significance, the absolute relevance and importance of inter-parliamentary interaction and dialogue. The modern world badly needs such broad cooperation, an open and free exchange of views, building trust and seeking mutual understanding. Its global agenda is complex and controversial. It is filled with great challenges and real threats that do actually exist, the answers to which can and will be effective only if these threats are recognised by the entire international community and if the states wish to discuss and find joint solutions to common challenges in a rapidly changing world. Its transformation to multi-polarity is already obvious. At the same time, the stubborn unwillingness of some countries to accept this new reality results in an increased confrontation in the world, ignoring international law, and undermining strategic stability. All this hinders collaboration. I am confident that refocusing the discussion of the updated global development model on concepts such as sovereignty and peoples’ right to adhere to their original path would enable us to reach feasible agreements, and international forums and summits would adopt not only declarations but also binding rules based on the interests of all states and their mutual responsibility. This should open up fundamentally new opportunities for the entire global community – opportunities for effectively fighting international terrorism and drug trafficking, for ensuring information security, and for removing barriers to trade and technology that are hindering global growth. What is extremely important – it will help us overcome the enormous inequality in the development of different regions in the world and the migration crisis triggered by that inequality. These are issues facing billions of people on the planet. The transition of the global economy to a new technological order objectively generates global challenges. In this context, all of us face the need to support sustainable development and guarantee the social and legal protection of individuals. The duty of all responsible politicians, academics and business people is to comprehend the nature of the technological revolution, the present and the future of the digital age; to coherently and, most importantly, timely deal with such issues as eliminating or smoothing out differences and risks arising during this revolution. There are many of them. So we need to close the ranks for the sake of using the enormous possibilities offered by technological breakthroughs in various fields in the interests of people. I would add that digital technology, artificial intelligence, the era of social media and big data will undoubtedly have an impact on politics and parliamentary activity, and on legislative practices; it will open new horizons for expanding direct democracy, direct, interactive participation of citizens in decision-making, and developing legal frameworks from the national to the local level. In short, new technology can play a huge positive role in enhancing transparency, democratising public and political life, and strengthening democratic institutions – but only if we all keep in mind the most important thing. Digital technology cannot replace freedom; it is the people who are always the source of power. The individual, and their rights, are the backbone and cornerstone of development. And of course, the most important civilizational task is to protect the planet from environmental and climatic degradation. Speculating on this hot topic, resisting progress, and retracting to outdated and primitive solutions will not help; but finding a real balance between the techno- and the eco-sphere, between nature and human prosperity, quality of life and longevity will. I believe the parliamentary community has an enormous role to play in consolidating the efforts of countries and peoples for resolving common problems. You possess real, effective levers. First, legislative regulation has been and will be a basic factor in the world’s ongoing transformations. Second, you have absolute democratic legitimacy. You are endowed with high authority – to express the will of your nations and, let me repeat, to act and cooperate in the interests of people. Today, the main mission of parliamentary diplomacy is to promote a unifying constructive agenda, facilitate the harmonisation of economic and humanitarian ties, build up trust between peoples and enhance the responsibility of the world’s parliamentary community for its ability to uphold democratic values. After all, it is possible to conduct practical and trustworthy dialogue, exchange legislative practices, improve and develop the system of international law only in a sound, strong inter-parliamentary environment. Your forum fully meets these requirements. Indicatively, your emphases on certain topics and those made at the recent G20 summit and during discussions at the St Petersburg International Economic Forum converge and largely supplement each other. Promoting sustainable development, making education and healthcare more accessible, strengthening human capital, resolving environmental problems, implementing digitisation and upgrading the labour market are priorities for the entire international community. These issues may be resolved successfully only in conditions of an open and safe common information space whereby all countries, civil societies and the media are truly interested in disseminating unbiased, honest information and straightforward news. I know the forum paid special attention to this issue. Let me repeat that consolidation of parliaments in drafting common rules for the exchange of information and its protection are very important for enhancing human rights and freedoms, and establishing and developing a balanced and fair world order. However, regrettably, we are seeing attempts to monopolise the global information space and misappropriate “the right to the truth.” Incidentally, these trends are expanding at the national level, when some countries actually impose censorship bans and barriers. We believe such bans on a different opinion fundamentally contradict democratic values, the principle of the freedom of speech and, in general, a parliamentary tradition that inherently implies respect for a different opinion or position. Colleagues, In conclusion I would like to thank all of you for deeming it important and necessary to attend this forum and discuss the multifaceted issues of inter-parliamentary cooperation based on trust and constructive approaches. Such respectful and productive cooperation makes a tangible contribution to the consolidation of genuine partnership between our countries and peoples. Let me wish you success in your work today and your activities at home. Thank you for your attention.
Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, I am delighted to welcome you to the Kremlin for the presentation of your letters of credence. You have an important and responsible mission – to facilitate the development of relations between your states and Russia. I hope that you will remain devoted to your mission of promoting political dialogue, as well as economic, humanitarian and other ties between our nations. We are wholeheartedly interested in the success of your efforts, and we will certainly provide all-round assistance to your positive initiatives. Russia is open to mutually beneficial cooperation with all states without exception based on equality and respect for each other’s interests, non-interference in internal affairs and strict compliance with international law. As a permanent member of the UN Security Council, Russia is making a contribution to the settlement of acute regional crises and other outstanding international problems. We stand for equal and indivisible security and a fair system of international economic relations without unscrupulous competition and unilateral and politically driven sanctions and restrictions. We are guided by these principles in our work at the UN and its specialised and regional agencies, as well as at other multilateral organisations, including G20, which has recently held its summit meeting in Osaka. In the near future, Russia will host a series of major international events. In June, Russia assumed the presidency of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation, and we will preside in BRICS from early 2020. In July 2020, we will host summits of these two associations. We are preparing for them, we are steering towards a joint partnership, and we aim to advance common priorities in such areas as politics, security, economy, finance, culture and humanitarian ties. In September 2019, Vladivostok will host a regular Eastern Economic Forum. We are expecting to receive Prime Minister of India Narendra Modi and Prime Minister of Japan Shinzo Abe as guests of honour. We are planning to review cooperation prospects and the implementation of major joint investment projects in the Asia-Pacific region and to exchange opinions on ways of merging various integration processes so as to create a major Eurasian partnership. In early October, Moscow will host Russian Energy Week, whose participants will discuss ensuring global energy security, providing all-round energy access and reducing volatile prices on global energy markets. We are preparing actively for the Russia-Africa summit, which will take place in Russia for the first time. It will be held in late October in Sochi and will be preceded by the Russian-African Economic Forum. President of Egypt and incumbent Chairman of the African Union Abdel Fattah el-Sisi will co-chair the Sochi forum together with us. We have sent invitations to all leaders of African states and to the heads of the largest sub-regional associations and organisations. We hope we will be able to take dialogue between Russia and Africa to an entirely new level, helping maintain regional peace and security, as well as sustainable development on the African continent. We are certainly preparing for a grand celebration of the 75 th anniversary of Victory over Nazism in WWII next May. There will be a large-scale programme of celebrations, and we hope the high representatives of many states will attend. We are aware of the importance of carefully preserving the historical truth about this great event of the 20 th century. We remember how much this victory cost, and we consider it necessary to always keep this in mind, and never forget the lessons of that terrible war. Ladies and gentlemen, The heads of 18 diplomatic missions are present here today. By tradition, I would like to say a few words about Russia’s relations with each of the states you represent. We are interested in further developing cooperation with the Democratic Republic of the Congo in politics, trade, and international affairs. We will continue to assist our Congolese partners in improving the socioeconomic situation in their country. Russia’s relations with Sierra Leone are based on the traditions of friendship and mutual understanding. We can see prospects for joint work in such sectors as mining, agriculture, and fishing. Brazil is one of our key partners on the international stage. We are consistently building bilateral relations, and developing cooperation in the energy sector, in the field of innovation and high technology. Brazil currently presides in BRICS, and only recently held a successful meeting of the BRICS leaders in Osaka. We will take part in the next, 11 th BRICS summit in Brazil in November, after which, the rotating presidency will go to Russia. We are satisfied with the level of cooperation with Ethiopia. Last year, our countries marked the 120 th anniversary of diplomatic relations. Our bilateral dialogue covers a range of important political, economic, research and education topics. We will continue to strengthen cooperation in international and regional affairs. Belarus is Russia’s closest ally. Taking this opportunity, I would like to once again congratulate the Belarusian people and the leadership of the republic on their national holiday, Independence Day. On this very day, July 3, 75 years ago, Minsk was liberated from Nazi invaders. This year, numerous events are being held dedicated to the 20 th anniversary of the Union State. We are committed to the further development of close integration with our Belarusian partners. This topic will be discussed at the talks with President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko scheduled to take place on the sidelines of the 6 th Forum of Regions of Belarus and Russia on July 18 in St Petersburg. In December, we will celebrate the 75 th anniversary of diplomatic relations with Nicaragua. Our countries share strong bonds of friendship and implement joint projects in healthcare, personnel training and disaster relief. We support the policy of this country’s leadership in regional and international affairs. Partnership with our neighbour Turkey has reached a strategic level. We are in constant contact with President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. In April, Moscow hosted a productive meeting of the High-Level Russian-Turkish Cooperation Council. We are successfully implementing such major projects as the construction of the Akkuyu nuclear power plant and the TurkStream gas pipeline. We also have many other interesting projects and joint ventures. A significant factor in international stability is the coordinated efforts of Russia and Turkey to normalise the situation and launch the peace process in Syria. There are good opportunities for the further development of trade, investment and cultural ties with Croatia. Recently, a series of fruitful top-level and high-level meetings has been held; inter-agency, inter-parliamentary and inter-regional exchanges are expanding. We have a strategic partnership and allied relations with Kyrgyzstan. Our countries participate in the Eurasian integration processes, including close cooperation within the Eurasian Economic Union, and promote international and regional security through the CSTO. The state visit to Kyrgyzstan in March gave a new impetus to trade, economic, military-technical, cultural and other cooperation. Cooperation with Namibia is successfully developing in such sectors as mineral resource development and uranium mining, as well as in the energy, fisheries, agriculture, tourism, military-technical and cultural areas. Namibia pursues a balanced policy in international affairs and plays an active role in peace-making efforts of the Southern African Development Community. We work together with Mauritania in marine fishing and hydrocarbon production. Our Mauritanian partners make a significant contribution to the fight against terrorism in the Sahara-Sahel zone. This year we celebrate the centennial of diplomatic relations with Afghanistan. We continue to assist in establishing a peaceful independent Afghan state, free from terrorism and drug-related crimes. We advocate for an end to the armed conflict in Afghanistan and the launch of an inclusive dialogue involving a wide range of social and political forces. We are planning to continue facilitating this process together with our Moscow format partners and the SCO-Afghanistan contact group. Russia and Greece are linked by deep spiritual and historical ties. This year, our countries are holding the Cross Year of Language and Literature, and we are ready for further cooperation in virtually every area. Relations with the Republic of Korea are rapidly advancing. Next year, we will celebrate the 30 th anniversary of our diplomatic relations. Russia and South Korea are currently implementing large-scale joint trade and investment projects. We work closely on the situation on the Korean peninsula and advocate for its prompt settlement through political and diplomatic means. We recently talked about this with President Moon Jae-in at the G20 Summit in Japan. We maintain close political, cultural and spiritual ties with the Republic of Cyprus. It is a favourite holiday spot for Russian citizens; last year, over 800,000 Russians visited Cyprus resorts. Russia consistently advocates for a comprehensive, just and viable settlement of the Cyprus problem based on the relevant UN Security Council resolutions. We are interested in cooperating with Costa Rica in the trade, economic and cultural areas. This May, we celebrated the 75 th anniversary of diplomatic relations between our countries. Our agreement on visa-free travel has recently entered into force. We maintain friendly relations with the Republic of Seychelles. We count on further joint work to expand our cooperation, including in tourism. Relations with Botswana encompass the trade, economic and humanitarian spheres; the intergovernmental agreement on military-technical cooperation is currently in force. Last year, we signed an intergovernmental agreement on cooperation in defence. Ladies and gentlemen, In conclusion, I would like to once again wish you all success in your important mission. I hope that your time in Russia will help you get to know our country better, get a better understanding of its people, and learn more about Russian history and culture. I am sure that it will leave the best of impressions on you. Thank you for your attention. Good luck! See also Visit to Japan. G20 summit June 28 − 29, 2019
Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Today’s ceremony is the final event of the Year of Russia in Japan and the Year of Japan in Russia and a chance to review the huge job we did together to promote humanitarian cooperation aimed at bringing our peoples closer together. The programme of the cross-year was truly attractive, grand and filled with interesting events. It covered nearly all spheres of our bilateral relations, including culture, the arts, education and tourism. Russia and Japan have successfully held over 700 different events, including exhibitions of works of art from Russian and Japanese museums, film and theatre festivals, musical tours, while sailing ships have also called at both countries’ ports. Joint projects in the field of healthcare, cutting-edge technology and municipal administrations have been implemented. Russia has successfully hosted performances given by Japan’s Nippon Budokan Martial Arts House. In April, Japanese tourists conducted a fact-finding tour of the Trans-Siberian Railway along the Following the Sun route and travelled across all of Russia, from Vladivostok to Moscow. Last week, St Petersburg was the venue of a workshop on restoring Japanese swords from Russian museums’ collections. This is the first such unique event to have taken place in our country. The Ambassador of Japan to Russia has just pointed out that a Japanese pianist has come second at the International Tchaikovsky Competition. But this is not linked with events of our cross-years. I sincerely congratulate this Japanese musician on his landmark victory from the bottom of my heart, and I wish him every success. This was entirely his own doing. The Japanese audience was really interested in the Russian figure skating team’s public training sessions. The Vaganova Academy of Russian Ballet organised a number of performances in Tokyo and some other Japanese cities, including Osaka. These events highlighted the rich traditions of Russian choreography. I would like to note that many of these performances involved outstanding cultural workers and artists of our countries, prominent specialists in the field of education, science and sports, members of parliament and creative young individuals. Today, we are witnessing performances given by very young talented people. Young soloists from the Moscow Chamber Choir and the Japanese Children’s Choir will perform both countries’ folk songs, and they will also display their professionalism while performing classical music. It goes without saying that the cross-years have provided a serious impulse to expanding the entire range of bilateral relations, have helped establish direct contacts between people and have, in general, facilitated stronger neighbourly ties between our countries. I would like to thank all the participants in these numerous events from the bottom of my heart. And, as Shinzo has just said, we have agreed to launch a new project called the Year of Russian-Japanese Inter-Regional and Twin City Exchanges. I am particularly happy to say this here in Osaka, the twin city of St Petersburg, my home city. This important initiative is called on to impart a new quality to diverse mutually beneficial ties between Russian and Japanese regions. Most importantly, work will continue to form an atmosphere of friendship and cooperation between our countries and peoples. Thank you. Arigato.
Good afternoon. Let us begin. Go ahead, please. There was certain scepticism, it is true, and not from me alone. Yet on the whole the G20 summit has proved its relevance, we have to admit that, and it was effective in all the major areas of work. The result has been achieved. I think we can congratulate the Japanese presidency on that. Japan did a lot for the summit’s success, and its efforts paid off. I would like to single out four major fields where the needed agreements have been reached. It is true that there were no breakthrough decisions. However, all the participants reconfirmed their commitment to continue efforts to improve the global trade system, including work to reform the WTO. The very fact that everyone confirmed the need for the process and reaffirmed their readiness to work along the lines is a positive development in itself. Positions have been coordinated, except for the United States, which always has a special opinion. In fact, the US delegation was open about it from the outset. Everyone knows the current Administration’s stance on the Paris Accords. Nevertheless, all the other participants in the forum confirmed their readiness to implement the agreements under the Paris Accords. Actually, I think there is also a positive moment in the US position too, since the Americans said they were ready to work on the environmental agenda under their own programme. We have to read the final wording but the fact that the Americans say they also want to contribute to solving environmental issues is a positive thing, in my view. As to Russia, we spoke about it a number of times and we reaffirmed that at the forum again and also agreed on that in the final document. We are going to fully comply with our commitments. In the nearest future we will begin the ratification of these agreements and will conduct the necessary domestic procedures. These issues are highly relevant for us. I stated this at the last plenary session. Let me remind you that according to the Federal Service for Hydrometeorology and Environmental Monitoring, the warming in Russia is happening 2.5 times faster than the average global warming. This is a major challenge for us. We must realise that. This is the reason for floods, and for permafrost thawing in the areas where we have fairly big cities. We must be able to understand how to react to the climate changes underway there. In this connection, I informed my colleagues on our national programme in the sphere of environment, a transition to the best available technologies in this area, as well as on a number of other measures we are taking in this field. Next, it is crucial for us, and I think it is also a very positive thing – we all know that the Internet is regulated in various ways by different countries. Nevertheless, all the G20 summit participants concluded that we must do everything to prevent negative information that is related to terrorism from spreading online. It must be careful joint work that is utterly important not only for the G20 nations but also for the whole world. The major trends that I have just listed are of interest to us and they all are part of our priorities. Oh, sorry, I missed another important area, as I said there were four of them. The fourth is digitalisation and work on AI. The G20 has been dealing with that, and it has dealt with it here, and there is a common decision on it. It is giving recommendations and indicating a direction for its development. As you know, we are working on our own AI programme. We have made a decision and the details are being finalised now, but it is also very important for us. It is unquestionably one of our development priorities. Please, go ahead. To begin with, this topic was raised, I do not remember now if it was during the lunch or during our meeting, but the President of the United States made this topic a priority of our communication at the G20 summit. We also spoke about other issues, naturally, but this topic was also raised. We explained what was going on there and generally spoke about this topic. No decision has been taken as of yet. The case is currently being tried in court. We have to wait until it is finished. After that we will make a decision. The key is to make sure it is disengaged from the Ukrainian election campaign so that such processes are not related to the internal political agenda in Ukraine. As far as the New START treaty is concerned, we instructed our foreign affairs departments to launch consultations on these questions. I do not know yet if those consultations will lead to the extension of the New START treaty, it is too early to speak about it, but we talked about this issue. It was a good meeting. Very business-like and pragmatic. We have covered practically the entire range of issues of mutual interest. By the way, it also included our economic relations. It was agreed that they are unsatisfactory. We once again pointed at the US business community’s interest in enhancing economic relations with Russia. I drew the US President’s Regarding this meeting, the Prime Minister did indeed ask questions about Mr Skripal. They were prompted due to the fact that your colleagues from The Financial Times raised this issue again and I had to answer it. This provoked a return to the issue. The Prime Minister indeed takes a very tough stance on this matter. We talked about it and clarified our positions. However, I still think that common sense must prevail. I am confident that we need to restore full-scale relations; this was also what the UK businesspeople spoke about when I met with them just recently in Moscow. None of the British companies left, are leaving or will leave the Russian market. In fact, they want to step up cooperation. This is why the politicians’ task is at least not to hamper the development of a normal situation, and it will be better if they support these positive trends. Whether the meeting was needed or not, I think that it was, because why not? Yes, she is about to step down but, firstly, today she is the current head of government. And secondly, even a small step in the positive direction is never wasted. Go ahead, please. Regarding the future visit, preparations for it are currently underway, so it is too early to speak about the questions that may be resolved during that visit. As for today’s meeting with the Crown Prince, we did discuss the possibility of extending our agreements with OPEC regarding oil production cuts. I want to inform you that it may have a certain importance for the market; we agreed to extend the agreements, or at any rate we will support extending the agreements, both Russia and Saudi Arabia. By the way, the cuts will be in the previously agreed volume. As to for how long, we will have to think about it, whether for another six or nine months – maybe up to nine months. I We maintain constant dialogue with our US partners; we have established good contacts on the ground, as they say, to coordinate our actions and efforts to fight terrorism. There are some hotbeds there, and I told the President about the latest joint actions – well, not joint actions but rather coordinating those actions. So there was no need for us to immerse into the details at the level of presidents. This is being done rather successfully at the operational working level. As for our Turkish partners and friends, we work with them on a daily basis, even more closely than with the Americans, so that we know about all the developments there and are trying to monitor them together. We also discussed this problem. However, there are some details that should not be disclosed at today’s news conference but the situation is under control. Please, go ahead. Yes, we spoke about that, and we agreed to continue to employ this format further. We spoke about some items on the bilateral agenda and on continuing work in the Normandy format. I generally agree with the Chancellor that we must use all instruments, and there are actually not so many of them, and the Normandy format is one of the functioning ones. Yes, we will keep working, the question is when, as the timeframe must be agreed on, The situation with Golunov was not injustice; it was lawlessness. It was plain lawlessness. And it must be investigated, and appropriate measures should be taken. As for Mr Petrov, I know nothing about this case; this is the first time I heard about it. I have been here, and, as you say, it happened in Moscow. This is not the kind of information that is reported to me online. I am not familiar with him, I know nothing about his business and I cannot comment in any way, whether it is fair or unfair. Obviously, law enforcement agencies should continue their work and thwart any illegal activities. But I cannot tell you anything about this particular case. Of course, I cannot take under control all cases like that. But I promise you that I will request the necessary information. Go ahead, please. I have no idea. This is not our business; it is up to the United States to think about how they should build relations with Russia. I think we have mutual understanding that we should somehow get out of the situation that has emerged so far. But this is the same as with our colleagues and partners from the UK. It is an abnormal situation, it must be simply rectified; we must somehow find the strength to turn the page, to move on and to look to the future. It is the same in relations with the United States. I told you that we reasserted our wish to support the business community’s proposal regarding tools for the support of business initiatives. But it shows that the incumbent Administration has intentions to somehow continue with this abnormal situation. I spoke about our trade with the United States and with some other partners. Obviously, $25 billion in trade does not meet our interests and does not reflect our potential. That is why I have no idea if they will do anything or not. At any rate, one thing is sure – we are not going to ask for anything. No means no. And if there is interest, we will respond in kind and will do everything we can to turn the situation around. Let me reiterate, I meet with US businesspeople, including at the St Petersburg Economic Forum. 550 people went there. They want to work. That means jobs, that means goals the President of the United State is trying to achieve. I actually said in that interview that after the globalisation processes led to such big growth of the world economy, even the middle class in the United States felt they were left behind. While large corporation made huge profits, their management got a lot of advantages as did their partners, the middle class did not, not very much. Wages remained the same, and the standard of living began to grow a little. Jobs are needed and conditions to raise real incomes of US citizens. To achieve that they need to expand cooperation and work with everyone, including Russia. They restricted the operation of their companies in the Russian market. We made calculations across some European countries, and it really amounts to lost profits. Cutting exports amounts to tens of billions of euros. That means jobs, either job cuts or jobs that were not created. The same applies to the United States. I hope that sanity will prevail in the end. We believe the 75 th anniversary of Victory over Nazism is the most important event in the world if only because by remembering such events we must do everything possible so that nothing of the kind happens again. And if we consign it to oblivion, the threat of renewed large-scale conflicts will increase. The world is explosive even today. We talk about it a great deal and you yourselves always record and confirm it. But it is not up to us if they come or not. Our business is to invite them. We respect our partners, and we always underscore the role and significance of our allies during the years of fighting Nazism. By the way, we think of the German underground anti-Nazi fighters in Germany as our allies too. This is why we will be happy if our invitation is accepted. If not, it is not critical. We will celebrate this date in a proper way in any case. No, PACE and the Ukrainian sailors have nothing to do with that. What I would like to draw your attention to is that the newly appointed Chief of General Staff of the Ukrainian Army confirmed that it was a provocation masterminded by Poroshenko to boost his election campaign. It is absolutely ridiculous, it is an outrage. Let us proceed from that. Given this, the Ukrainian side has in fact acknowledged that it was a provocation on their part. We will resolve this issue quietly and efficiently. We have questions regarding some people who were arrested in Ukraine, apart from those sailors. They were following an order and that was it, we are aware of that, but they broke the Russian law. This is why all that must be quietly and efficiently sorted out. Meanwhile, exchanges go ahead. Quite recently I was told that the Lugansk and Donetsk People’s Republics released four people with Mr Medvedchuk’s mediation. This is a good example of work, direct contact with the people who should be engaged in dialogue. If the current authorities build up the work in this direction, we will be able to achieve a lot. Yes, to be honest, it was totally unexpected for me that an interview – which I saw to be routine, ordinary, something passing, in which I did not think I said anything new – should stir such great interest. Some colleagues – I will not be giving their names now – indeed discussed the issues raised in the interview. Some of them supported me on the whole, others opposed and debated with me. So, yes, it did happen. So you see the point? If we go back to the G20, it is an economic forum. The issues of liberal policy, attitude towards migration and so on were raised here. But regarding the economy, there are debates between the Peoples’ Republic of China and the United States on trade issues, with China being blamed, among other things, for subsidies to industries. But if we want to discuss the problem of subsidising industries, let us talk about agricultural subsidies, which are very common in the European Union. If this policy continues, a policy that shuts down the market of agricultural products, or, theoretically speaking, keeps the market closed to goods from developing countries, then a
Good afternoon, colleagues, The President of Tajikistan and the President of the People’s Republic of China have just expressed crucial assessments of the current conditions and prospects for our countries’ work within the Conference on Interaction and Confidence-Building Measures in Asia. I also believe that our forum makes a major contribution to cooperation throughout the entire Asian space. In line with the theme of the present session, Shared Vision for a Secure and More Prosperous CICA Region , I would like to stress that Russia’s aim is to explore interaction with all the CICA member countries on strengthening peace and stability in Asia. We stand for boosting joint efforts to establish a system of equal, common and indivisible security in Asia based on universally accepted principles of international law and the UN Charter, such as mutual trust, neighbourliness, respect for sovereignty and non-interference in internal affairs. Truly sustainable stability system in Asia can obviously be achieved only through settling existing crisis situations and conflicts, and persistently combatting the threat of terrorism. To do that, cooperation should be stepped up in identifying and neutralising terrorist groups and cutting off their financing, including from drug trafficking. It is a priority to do everything in our power to prevent terrorists from getting hold of chemical, biological or other kinds of weapons of mass destruction, and to thwart propaganda of extremist ideas. The situation in Afghanistan is of special concern , where radical extremist organisations, including the ones pushed out from the Middle East, are back to stepping up their activities. I will note that Russia assists the intra-Afghan dialogue in every possible way. In February and in late May Moscow hosted two rounds of talks between all key public and political forces of Afghanistan and the Taliban movement. As the country currently holding the presidency of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation, Russia will do everything to implement the roadmap adopted at the SCO summit, which wrapped up in Bishkek yesterday, on expanding interaction with Afghanistan on security, economic and humanitarian issues. We believe that a lasting stabilisation in Syria is another top priority for ensuring security in our region. With Russia’s participation, the legitimate government gained control over most of the Syrian territory, and favourable conditions were created for the return of refugees and internally displaced persons. Cooperation between Russia, Iran and Turkey in the Astana format is bringing real results. Together, we assist in advancing intra-Syrian settlement process, including the formation and launch of the Syrian Constitutional Committee. It is crucial to start providing political transformations which are needed for normalisation in Syria. Everyone is concerned about state of affairs with the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action on the Iranian nuclear programme. The United States’ withdrawal from the agreement has significantly impeded its implementation, and has had a negative effect on the overall situation in nuclear non-proliferation. We believe that the only reasonable solution is for all signatories to continue honouring their commitments under the Plan, and this is what Russia is set to do. As for the situation on the Korean Peninsula, there is and can be no alternative to a peaceful diplomatic path. This approach was the basis for the roadmap written in 2015 at our joint initiative with the People’s Republic of China. It was in this vein that we also held our talks with Chairman of the State Affairs Commission of the DPRK Kim Jong-un in Vladivostok, Russia, in April. It is important that all the Conference member countries contribute as much as they can to the efforts on decreasing tensions on the peninsula and enhancing security in the whole of Northeast Asia. Colleagues, The focus of the discussions at the previous summit of the Conference on Interaction and Confidence-Building Measures in Asia, which was held in Shanghai in May 2014, was on issues of preventing the use of IT for undermining international peace and security. It was agreed then to promote the idea of drafting universal international rules for the responsible conduct in the digital space. I must say that certain results have been achieved. At Russia’s proposal and with the support of many nations represented here – for which we are very grateful – the United Nations General Assembly adopted a resolution on the code of responsible conduct in information and telecommunications area. A process was launched to establish a UN working group on international information security. Combined efforts of the Conference member countries are also needed to further enhance close economic ties in the whole Asian space. Today our region is the driver of global growth. It is home to large industrial and technological centres, and high-capacity financial, personnel and intellectual resources are concentrated here. In total, it gives the region unparalleled competitive advantages, and they must be utilised in full for the common benefit to ensure sustainable and dynamic development. As a coordinator of the economic dimension at the Conference on Interaction and Confidence-Building Measures in Asia, Russia places special emphasis on the work on this track. Let me remind you that in 2015, at Russia’s initiative, a business council was set up within the Conference with the participation of our countries’ businesspeople, whereas for the present summit a memorandum on cooperation between small and medium-sized businesses was drafted. We advocate increasing mutual trade and rejecting protectionism, illegal sanctions, politically motivated restrictions and barriers. We are committed to enhancing investment cooperation in all areas and expanding industrial collaboration on the basis of the universal WTO rules on the principles of equality, respect and consideration for each other’s interests. We spoke in detail about this quite recently, just a week ago, at the St Petersburg Economic Forum. The essence of what we meant to say at the forum is that, unfortunately, real trade wars are breaking out in the world. In fact, fights without rules are underway, with intimidation and removing competitors using non-market methods. And our collective efforts are needed more than ever now to find a way out of this situation. We need to reassert trust and establish standards for fair economic interaction. As a first step, we should at least ensure that trade and sanction restrictions do not apply to the social and humanitarian sphere. I am referring to essential commodities, medications and medical equipment. I think it is hard to disagree with that. I would also like to note with satisfaction that the idea of aligning the ongoing integration processes within the Eurasian Economic Union, Association of Southeast Asian Nations, Shanghai Cooperation Organisation and China’s Belt and Road Initiative is gaining increasing support, including from the Conference members. This approach certainly meets our common interests. In conclusion, I would like to thank President of the Republic of Tajikistan Emomali Rahmon for the warm reception and hospitality, and for the organisation of our joint work. Thank you.  See also Declaration of the Fifth Summit of Conference on Interaction and Confidence Building Measures in Asia Shared Vision for a Secure and More Prosperous CICA Region June 15, 2019 Additional All news about the visit to Tajikistan June 14 − 15, 2019
The SCO is an international organisation that was created in the mid-1990s. This was related to the need to settle border issues between Russia, Firstly, the SCO was created not at China’s initiative, but at the initiative of all countries that took part in the negotiations on the border issues I mentioned. But yes, Russia and China, together, were the main initiators. Other partners took equal part in both the work and the creation of the SCO. As for trade wars and my joke, when I recalled this Chinese proverb, you probably did not notice what I said after that. I said that we live in a complex world. Since these proverbs were created, the situation has changed radically, and today relations between Russia and China have special importance for both our countries and the global community in general – I can say that without exaggerating. In fact, to answer your question, we are talking about a dispute between the world’s largest economies. There are many specific issues related to the current work of the two states. China is a huge factory manufacturing goods for the whole world, including the United States. The US deploys its production facilities there, creating jobs. At the same time, when China sells its goods in foreign markets, including significant exports to the American market, it stores a significant part of the forex proceeds in US securities. There are a lot of specific ties between the two countries. And of course, common sense tells us that we have no reason to interfere in this negotiation process. But there is a small hitch, albeit a significant one. First of all, we truly have an unprecedentedly good and wholesome relationship with China. We truly are strategic partners in every sense of the word. We cooperate in the economy, the humanitarian sphere, and at the regional level, and there is cooperation between our Foreign and Defence Ministries. We are making a significant contribution to the maintenance of universal peace and security – not only in the region where our states are located, but also in the world as a whole. We coordinate our activities as permanent members of the UN Security Council. Unfortunately, we cannot say anything of the kind about our relations with the US – they are in fact deteriorating, getting worse by the hour. In recent years, the current US administration has already taken several dozen decisions on sanctions with regard to Russia, I think. On the contrary, our trade with China is growing, and has reached $108 billion. Last year, we set ourselves the target of reaching $100 billion, and we have already surpassed that at $108 billion. I have very good and friendly relations with the leader of China, the President of the PRC. This also makes a significant contribution, as it creates an atmosphere of trust. And naturally, in these conditions, our sympathies are with our strategic partners – this much goes without saying. This mainly happens because any action that undermines the international economic relations architecture that has been in place for decades is detrimental to all participants in economic activity; this is our profound conviction. Therefore, we strongly hope that common sense will triumph in the end. I hope that with all our partners, including our American partners, the United States, we will be able to work out some constructive solutions during the upcoming G20 meeting, creating the necessary stable conditions for economic cooperation. It is a broad-based format created at the initiative of Kazakhstan’s first President, Nursultan Nazarbayev Nazarbayev Nursultan . It is an additional venue where regional leaders can meet to discuss the situation in the huge Asian region. It concerns the Middle East and South Asia. There are many issues and problems in the region that require special attention, from the chronic Israeli-Palestinian conflict to Afghanistan, Iran and Iran’s nuclear programme, North Korea and its nuclear programme, and much more. There are very many issues for discussion. Of course, we are concerned about the Middle East, but we are equally worried about Iran’s nuclear programme and North Korea. We are closely monitoring the developments in Afghanistan. I would like to say that we are energetically and, I believe, effectively collaborating on this issue with many countries, including the United States, which is running an operation and is responsible for the situation in Afghanistan. We have been contributing to these efforts, and I strongly hope that our cooperation in this sphere will yield positive results. Overall, I would like to say again, concluding my answer with what I have said at the beginning, that there will be very many issues in the focus of our discussion. To begin with, President Tokayev studied in Moscow and knows Russia very well. I have reasons to believe that this leader will definitely carry on the policy of the first President of Kazakhstan, Nursultan Nazarbayev, the policy of rapprochement with Russia and the development of allied relations in all spheres, including industry, agriculture and the science-driven spheres such as space exploration. We have several large projects. We strongly hope that all our plans will be implemented. I have no reason to expect any problems here. On the contrary, I believe that the increase in our mutual trade, which keeps growing, and the diversification of our ties will only improve the conditions for cooperation between our countries and also at the human level between our citizens. Interview to Mir Interstate Television and Radio Company. There are millions of contacts and ties between our people. This humanitarian aspect of our cooperation is extremely important. It covers social issues and everything else concerned with social security and so forth. There are also infrastructure aspects that cover not simply bilateral but trilateral and quadrilateral relations. There are very ambitious, I would say, huge plans and projects. I am confident that they will be implemented. I hope you do not mind, but I have to correct you a little. I gave no assessment of President Zelensky’s actions at the forum, because there have been no actions so far. I I think the situation in Moldova is not unique, by any means. But it is the most revealing, because the authorities in Moldova, as well as partly in Ukraine, were in the full and literal sense of the word usurped by oligarchic groups, by oligarchs, who brought all government agencies to heel – This is a very important sphere. First, it must be open, this space. There should be a minimal number of restrictions. And if there are any, they should be prompted exclusively by security reasons or some generally recognised elements of morality, I should say. In general, this information space should be as open as possible, so that all sources of information are protected, respected and can work effectively. Moreover, the less politicised they are, the better. Information should be spread freely – I mean freedom not in the interests of those who spread it, but in the interests of the citizens who use this information. I strongly hope that the presentation of the content will be interesting, creative and meaningful, and all citizens of our countries will be able to use it to better understand each other, to understand what is happening with their neighbours and to study the best practices that are used in our states to implement them at home.
Good afternoon, friends and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I am happy to welcome to Russia all heads of state and government, all participants in the St Petersburg International Economic Forum. We are grateful to our guests for their attention and friendly attitude to Russia and their willingness for joint work and business cooperation that always rests, as business leaders know well, on pragmatism, understanding of mutual interests and, of course, trust in each other, frankness and clear-cut positions. I would like to take advantage of the SPIEF venue to tell you not only about the goals and tasks that we in Russia have set for ourselves but also about our views on the state of the global economic system. For us this is not an abstract conversation, nor an academic discussion. Russia’s development, simply by virtue of its size, history, culture, the human potential and economic opportunities cannot take place outside the global context, without the correlation of the domestic, national and global agendas. So, what is the state of affairs today or at least how do we in Russia see it? Technically, global economic growth, and I hope we will mostly talk about that since this is an economic forum, has been positive in the recent period. In 2011–2017, the global economy grew by an annual average of 2.8 percent. In recent years, the relevant figure was a bit over three percent. However, we believe, and countries’ leaders and all of us must frankly admit that regrettably, despite this growth, the existing model of economic relations is still in crisis and this crisis is of a comprehensive nature. Problems in this respect have been piling up throughout the past few decades. They are more serious and larger than it seemed before. The architecture of the global economy has changed dramatically since the Cold War as new markets were becoming part of the globalisation process. The dominant model of development based on the Western “liberal” tradition, let us call it Euro-Atlantic for the sake of argument, began to claim not just a global, but also a universal role. International trade was the main driver behind the current globalisation model. From 1991 to 2007, it grew more than twice as fast as global GDP. This can be accounted for by the newly opened markets of the former Soviet Union and Eastern Europe, and goods pouring into these markets. However, this period turned out to be relatively short-lived by historical standards. The global crisis of 2008–2009 ensued. It not only exacerbated and revealed imbalances and disproportions, but also showed that global growth mechanisms were beginning to fail. Of course, the international community learned its lesson. However, truth be told, there was not enough will or, perhaps, courage, to sort things out and draw the corresponding conclusions. A simplified approach prevailed whereby the global development model was allegedly quite good and, essentially, nothing needed to be changed since it was enough to eliminate the symptoms and coordinate some rules and institutions in the global economy and finance, and then everything would turn out just fine. There were many hopes and positive expectations back then, but they quickly vanished. Quantitative easing and other measures failed to resolve the problems and only pushed them into the future. I am aware that quantitative easing was discussed at this and other forums. We at the Government and the Presidential Executive Office never stop discussing and debating these matters. I will now cite data from the World Bank and the IMF. Before the crisis of 2008–2009, the global trade in goods and services to global GDP ratio was constantly growing, but then the trend reversed. It is a fact, there is no such growth anymore. The global trade to global GDP ratio of 2008 has never been recovered. In fact, global trade ceased to be the unconditional driver behind the global economy. The new engine represented by state-of-the-art technology is still being fine-tuned and not operating at full capacity. Moreover, the global economy has entered a period of trade wars and mounting direct or covert protectionism. What are the sources of the crisis in international economic relations? What undermines trust between the world economic players? I think the main reason is that the model of globalisation offered in the late 20 th century is increasingly at odds with the rapidly emerging new economic reality. In the past three decades, the share of advanced countries in the global GDP in purchasing power parity decreased from 58 to 40 percent. In the G7 it dropped from 46 to 30 percent, whereas the weight of the countries with developing markets is growing. Such rapid development of new economies that, apart from their interests, have their own development platforms and views on globalisation and regional integration processes does not correlate well with the ideas that seemed immutable relatively recently. The previous patterns essentially put the Western countries into an exclusive position and we should be straight about this. These patterns gave them an advantage and an enormous rent, thereby predetermining their leadership. Other countries simply had to follow in their wake. Of course, much happened and is still happening to the accompaniment of talk about equality. I will speak about this as well. And when this comfortable, familiar system began to grow rickety and competition grew, ambitions and a striving to preserve one’s domination at all costs surged. Under the circumstances, the states that previously preached the principles of free trade and honest and open competition began to talk in terms of trade wars and sanctions, and resorted to undisguised economic raids with arms twisting, intimidation and the removal of rivals by so-called non-market methods. Look, there are many examples of this. I will only mention those that concern us directly and that are common knowledge. Take, for example, the construction of the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline. I saw in the hall our partners who work with it professionally, not only Russians but also our friends from Europe. This project is designed to enhance energy security in Europe and create new jobs. It fully meets the national interests of all participants, both European and Russian. If it did not meet these interests, we would have never seen our European partners in it. Who could force them into this project? They came because they were interested in it. But this does not match the logic and interests of those who became used to exclusiveness and anything-goes behavior in the framework of the existing universalist model. They are used to letting others pay their bills; therefore, endless attempts to torpedo this project are made. It is alarming that this destructive practice has not only affected traditional energy, raw materials and commodity markets but it has also leaked into new industries that are now taking shape. Take the situation with Huawei. Attempts are being made not just to challenge it on the global market but to actually restrict it in an off-handed manner. Some circles already call this “the first technological war” to break out in the digital era. It would appear that rapid digital transformation and technologies that are quickly changing industries, markets and professions, are designed to expand the horizons for anyone who is willing and open to change. Unfortunately, here too barriers are being built and direct bans on high-tech asset purchases are being imposed. It has come to the point where even the number of foreign students for certain specialties is limited. Frankly, I find it hard to wrap my mind around this fact. Nevertheless, this is all happening in reality. Surprising, but true. Monopoly is invariably about concentrating revenue in the hands of a few at the expense of everyone else. In this sense, attempts to monopolise an innovation-driven technology wave and to limit access to its fruits take the problems of global inequality between countries and regions and within states to a whole new level. This, as we all know, is the main source of instability. It is not just about the level of income or financial inequality, but fundamental differences in opportunities for people. In essence, an attempt is being made to build two worlds, the gap between which is constantly widening. In this situation, certain people have access to the most advanced systems of education and healthcare and modern technology, while others have few prospects or even chances to break out of poverty, with some people balancing on the verge of survival. Today, more than 800 million people around the world do not have basic access to drinking water, and about 11 percent of the world's population is undernourished. A system based on ever-increasing injustice will never be stable or balanced. Exacerbating environmental and climatic challenges that represent a direct threat to the socioeconomic well-being of all humankind are making the crisis even worse. Climate and the environment have become an objective factor in global development and a problem fraught with large-scale shocks, including another uncontrolled surge in migration, more instability and undermined security in key regions of the planet. At the same time, there is a high risk that instead of joint efforts to address environmental and climate issues, we will run into attempts to use this issue for unfair competition. Ladies and gentlemen, Today we are facing two extremes, two possible scenarios for further development. The first is the degeneration of the universalist globalisation model and its turning into a parody, a caricature of itself, where common international rules are replaced with the laws, administrative and judicial mechanisms of one country or a group of influential states. I state with regret that this is what the US is doing today when it extends its jurisdiction to the entire world. Incidentally, I spoke about this 12 years ago. Such a model not only contradicts the logic of normal interstate communication and the shaping realities of a complicated multipolar world but, most importantly, it does not meet the goals of the future. The second scenario is a fragmentation of the global economic space by a policy of completely unlimited economic egoism and a forced breakdown. But this is the road to endless conflict, trade wars and maybe not just trade wars. Figuratively, this is the road to the ultimate fight of all against all. So what is the solution? I am referring to a real solution rather than utopian or ephemeral one. Obviously, new agreements will be needed for drafting a more stable and fair development model. These agreements should not only be written clearly but should also be observed by all participants. However, I am convinced that talk about an economic world order like this will remain wishful thinking unless we return to the centre of the discussion, that is, notions like sovereignty, the unconditional right of every country to its own development road and, let me add, responsibility for universal sustainable development, not just for one’s own development. What should be the subject of discussion in terms of regulating such agreements and such a common legal environment? Certainly not the imposition of a single and the only correct canon for all countries, but above all, the harmonisation of national economic interests, principles of teamwork, competition and cooperation between countries with their own individual development models, peculiarities and interests. The drafting of such principles should be carried out with maximum openness and in the most democratic manner. It is on this foundation that the system of world trade should be adapted to current realities and the efficiency of the World Trade Organisation enhanced. Other international institutions should be filled with new meaning and content rather than broken. It is necessary to sincerely consider, rather than just talk about the requirements and interests of the developing nations, including those that are upgrading their industry, agriculture and social services. This is what equal conditions for development is all about. Incidentally, we suggest considering the creation of an open, accessible data bank with the best practices and development projects. Russia is ready to publish its successful case studies in the social, demographic and economic areas on an information platform, and invites other countries and international organisations to join this initiative. With regard to finance, the main global institutions were created as part of the Bretton Woods system 75 years ago. The Jamaican currency system that replaced it in the 1970s confirmed the preference of the US dollar but, in fact, failed to resolve the key problems, primarily, the balance of currency relations and trade exchanges. New economic centres have appeared since then, the role of regional currencies has increased, and the balance of forces and interests has changed. Clearly, in the wake of these profound changes, international financial organisations need to adapt and reconsider the role of the dollar, which, as a global reserve currency, has now become an instrument of pressure exerted by the issuing country on the rest of the world. Incidentally, I believe the US financial authorities and political centres are making a big mistake as they are undermining their own competitive edge that appeared after the creation of the Bretton Woods system. Confidence in the dollar is simply plummeting. The technological development agenda must unite countries and people, not divide them. For this, we need fair parameters for interaction in key areas such as high-tech services, education, technology transfer, innovative digital economy branches and the global information space. Yes, building such a harmonious system is certainly challenging, but this is the best recipe for restoring mutual trust, as we have no alternative. We need to join our efforts, being fully cognizant of the scale of the new era’s global challenges and our responsibility for the future. To do so, we need to use the potential of the UN, which is a unique organisation in terms of representation. We should strengthen its economic institutions and use new associations like the Group of 20 more effectively. Pending the creation of a set of rules like this, we need to act in accordance with the current situation and actual problems and have a realistic understanding of what is happening in the world. As a first step, we propose, speaking diplomatically, to conduct a kind of demilitarisation of the key areas of the global economy and trade, namely, to make the distribution of essential items such as medicines and medical equipment immune to trade and sanctions wars. Thank you very much for your understanding. That also includes utilities and energy, which help reduce the impact on the environment and climate. This, as you understand, concerns areas that are crucial for the life and health of millions, one might even say, billions of people, our entire planet. Colleagues, The current global trends show that a country’s role, its sovereignty and place in the modern system of reference are determined by several key factors. They are undoubtedly the ability to ensure the safety of its citizens, to preserve its national identity and also to contribute to the progress of world culture. And there are at least three more factors that, in our opinion, are of key significance. Let me expand on that. The first factor is a person’s wellbeing and prosperity, opportunities to discover their talents. The second factor is the society’s and state’s receptiveness to sweeping technological change. And the third factor is freedom of entrepreneurial initiative. Let me start with the first item. Russia’s GDP per capita at purchasing power parity is about $30,000. South and Eastern European countries are at the same level today. Our priority for the coming years is not only to become one of the world’s top five economies. It is ultimately not a goal in itself but a vehicle; we have to reach and stay at the average European level in all major parameters reflecting the quality of life and people’s wellbeing. Given this, we have identified national goals on the growth of the economy and people’s incomes, decreasing poverty, increasing life expectancy, improving education and healthcare, and preserving the environment. The national projects we are implementing are designed to address these tasks. The second field is accelerated technological development. It offers truly colossal opportunities. Our priority is to be among the front-runners, those who use these technologies and convert them into a real breakthrough. Thus, according to experts, the introduction of artificial intelligence will add 1.2 percent annual growth to the global GDP. It is twice as much as the impact from the global IT growth in the early 21 st century. The world market of goods with AI will increase almost 17-fold by 2024 to total around half a trillion dollars. Just like other leading nations, Russia has drafted a national strategy for developing AI technologies. It was designed by the Government along with domestic hi-tech companies. An executive order launching this strategy will be signed shortly. A detailed, step-by-step road map is incorporated in the Digital Economy national programme. Russia has capable research potential, and a good starting point for designing the most advanced technological solutions. And this refers not only to AI, but also to other groups of the so called end-to-end technologies. In this connection, I propose to our state companies and the leading Russian private companies to partner with the state in promoting end-to-end research and technologies. These include, as I said, artificial intelligence and other digital technologies. These are, of course, new materials, genome technologies for medicine, agriculture and industry, as well as portable sources of energy, technologies for energy transfer and storage. The practical results of such a partnership should be the production and promotion of successful breakthrough products and services both in the domestic and foreign markets. This is an opportunity for the state to build its powerful sovereign potential, and for companies – a chance to enter a new technological era. We discussed all these issues at a special meeting in Moscow just a week ago. Following the meeting, respective agreements will be signed shortly with Sberbank, Rostec, Rosatom, Russian Railways and Rostelecom. A package of corresponding documents has already been prepared. I ask our leading fuel and energy companies – Gazprom, Rosneft, Rosseti, Transneft – to join this work, this large-scale project. I give the Government a directive to manage this effort. How will the state and large companies cooperate? Under the partnership agreement, the companies invest in research and development, they invest in competence centres, start-up support, training personnel in research, management and engineering and in attracting foreign specialists. The state, in turn, will provide financial and tax incentives, generate demand for domestic hi-tech products, including through government procurement, that is, it will guarantee a market. We will keep working on this. Our Chinese friends may also buy a bit more of our new products. We need to fine-tune the system of technical standards, and even introduce a sort of experimental legal framework. An adequate and flexible legal environment is a key issue for new industries, and establishing it around the world brings new problems; there are many sensitive issues both for state security and for the interests of society and its people. But in order to achieve results, it is critically important to speed up the decision-making process, so I ask our colleagues from the Government, experts, and the business community to offer an effective mechanism for this. New industries will require specialists with new skills. We are moving quickly to upgrade programmes and education content for this. As you may know, in August, Kazan will host the WorldSkills Championships, during which, at Russia’s initiative, the first ever competition in the competences of the future will take place, including machine learning and big data, composite materials technology and quantum technologies. I wish every success to our team and the participants in the competition. I would like to mention that we have created a new platform, Russia – An Ocean of Opportunity , to encourage personal and professional growth. It holds competitions, in which schoolchildren, young people and people of different ages from Russia and abroad can take part. A human resources project like this is unprecedented in scale. It drew over 1.6 million people in 2018 and 2019 alone. We are committed to promoting this system, to making it more effective and transparent, because the more daring and talented people engage in business, science and public and social administration, the greater success we will achieve in handling development issues and the more globally competitive our country will be. The third factor in the country’s competitiveness, which was mentioned earlier, is a favourable business environment. We are working on this consistently and will continue to work on it. Today, if we look at a number of services for businesses and the quality of the most in-demand administrative procedures, we are similar to, and in some cases even outperform, countries with strong and deep-rooted traditions of entrepreneurship. Healthy competition between regions to attract entrepreneurs, investment and projects has been gaining momentum. The efficiency of management teams has increased a lot. A serious incentive for this change was the development of the National Investment Climate Rankings for the constituent regions of the Russian Federation. In keeping with an established tradition at the St Petersburg International Economic Forum, I would like to announce and congratulate the winners of the 2019 National Rankings. They are Moscow, Tatarstan, Tyumen and Kaluga regions and St Petersburg. I also applaud them. As for the pace at which the investment climate is improving, the leaders are Yakutia, Primorye Territory, Samara Region, Crimea and North Ossetia, Perm Territory, Nizhny Novgorod Region, Udmurtia and Ivanovo and Novgorod regions. I would like to take this opportunity to ask the heads of the regions and the presidential envoys to these federal districts to step up their work to attract private capital to the national programmes and our other development projects, including through the Russian Direct Investment Fund and other modern and effective mechanisms. As I mentioned, there are some positive changes in the business climate, notably, administrative procedures, but there are still urgent problems that worry business. First, we still have to deal with the archaic nature and obvious excesses of the oversight bodies, as well as the unjustified and sometimes simply illegal interference of law enforcement in the business environment, in the operation of companies. This year we launched a deep and comprehensive reform of monitoring and oversight. It is the largest reform in the post-Soviet era. Starting January 1, 2021 the entire old, largely obsolete legal framework will cease to operate. It will be replaced by a clear- There is a good Chinese proverb that says “when tigers fight in the valley, the smart monkey sits aside and waits to see who wins.” But things change. And this picture is also changing. What is changing exactly? The fact is that today, we adhere to the same principles that the world was guided by only recently, and the United States, the world’s leading economy by a number of indicators, remains exactly as it was, a high-tech economy that has always promoted the ideas of free trade and democracy in the international economic arena. But today we see what is happening – they are introducing a different practice – I said as much in my remarks. As strong competitors emerge and gain strength, such tools suddenly become unacceptable to them, and various restrictions come into play like tariff wars and tariff restrictions. This, by the way, causes great damage. Yesterday I met with the leaders of large investment companies, and cited these figures to them – these are not our figures, these are international figures, from international institutions, the World Bank in particular – if by 2022 these restrictions are still growing at the same rate as today, it will lead to a 2 percent decline in global GDP growth and will cut global trade by 17 percent. We are certainly not happy about this scenario. Allow me to remind you that during the global economic and financial crisis of 2008–2009, global GDP growth slowed by exactly 2 percent, while trade growth slowed by 10 percent. If today’s trend continues, everyone here, including your colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, will face big problems and tremendous losses. Business will incur losses. Who will they shift their losses to? To our citizens. New jobs will not be created; on the contrary, jobs will be cut. Money will not flow to budgets at all levels, and so on. This will have very serious negative consequences. We do not want this to happen, of course. Where is our place? It is in the fight for fair, democratic principles in the development of international economic relations. As you know, our relations with China are expanding, and with other countries, too; despite all the attempts to hamper certain projects, trade is growing, thank God. But if trends like today’s persist, it will be bad for everyone. We will certainly try to build relations based on equality and on the principles that I spoke of in my speech. First of all, I would like to add a few words to what our guest from Slovakia has said. This analysis is absolutely correct. I Russia can what? You see, we are not creating military alliances with China. Yes, we are strategic allies. We are not working against anyone; we are working in our interests and in the interests of our partners. We are not going to replace anything with anything. Our relations with the European Union, for instance, have always been multifaceted. Mutual trade was over $400 billion, then it fell to half of that figure, May I add something? You know, Mr Guterres and I attended the last Belt and Road event in Beijing; I think he will confirm this. Do you know what I noticed? First, all the important global players came. The European Union was represented at various levels, by various countries, but there were practically all the leading countries in the European Union. And the second thing I noticed, and I think the Secretary-General will confirm this, I would like to emphasise it again. I don’t know if it is my good friend Xi Jinping’s manner, or the Chinese philosophy – they never impose anything on anyone. They propose. They propose, in fact – I might get it wrong – at the first stage, an investment of over $120 billion in various spheres, and $70 billion I think has already been invested. As for Russia, we have established almost 100 companies with our Chinese partners, created 13,000 jobs – good, high-tech companies – in the Far East alone, in the priority development areas there. As for the integration of the EAEU and President Xi Jinping’s idea, the Belt and Road initiative, we have specific projects together. There is a road from China to Kazakhstan, which means large infrastructure projects, and we have to build our road all the way to Kazakhstan. We are actually behind schedule, because Kazakhstan has already done their part. There are other projects of this kind. We have very specific plans for joint work, and we are completely satisfied with them. And I am sure that we will move forward very successfully. In all cases they must be guided by Russia’s current legislation. This relates both to the government and Russian and foreign businesses. I understand what you are talking about. I am concerned about this too, otherwise I would not be speaking about it today, but everyone must respect the law. When we say that law enforcement agencies should not unjustifiably interfere in the life and activity of business entities, this is our position. But this also means that all participants in this process, including businesspeople, must abide by the law. What about this case? There was a violation; as you know, he has been accused of embezzling 2.5 billion rubles. Some people, including many of those present here, his Russian partners, claim he did not do it. Maybe. But it is the law enforcement agencies’ job to find out. We have a judicial system for this purpose. I very much hope that everything will be done in a transparent and clear way, with the participation of those who defend the position of our American partner, and that just and lawful decisions will be made. On my part, my colleagues from the Government will monitor the situation. The Prosecutor General, I see he is here, Mr Chaika, will carefully watch and manage this process. As for the fact that someone was put under house arrest and someone was remanded in custody. This also relates to what our French friends told me, that someone has a place to stay in Moscow and someone does not. How can someone be put under house arrest if he has no house or no apartment? But we will consider this issue. I spoke about the humanisation of these procedures and we will move in this direction. If there is a possibility to avoid keeping someone in jail while investigating a case, we need to strive to use this possibility. Our actions in the near future will be aimed at humanising such processes. Listen, Look, Charles de Gaulle once spoke about a united space from Portugal to the Urals. I later added, “to Vladivostok.” There are no serious tensions. There are concrete things that we need to take into account during these integration processes. First, integration processes are inevitable, we are witnessing them all over the world, and we are part of this global process. Naturally, we join our efforts with the republics of the former Soviet Union. We share a common language, common infrastructure; there are many things that unite us and create natural competitive advantages. This is all very natural. But there are certain issues we need to overcome to be part of the integration process, to interact with the European Union. What issues, for instance? Well, he has been clinging to the same rhetoric so far, calling us enemies and aggressors. He must somehow make up his mind on what he wants to achieve and what he wants to do. We are not renouncing all contact with him. We will work with him. Very good. Have I ever refused to do this? Nobody has made such an offer to me. Listen, I do not know this man. I hope we will get acquainted someday. Judging by everything I’ve seen, he is a good specialist in the area he has worked in until now. He is a good actor. I am serious and you are laughing. But it is one thing to play someone and another to be someone. Obviously, acting requires talent. Many talents. You can change your role every ten minutes. The prince and the pauper – every ten minutes, and you have to be convincing in every role. This is really a talent. In order to deal with the affairs of the state, one needs different kinds of qualities. One needs certain experience, knowledge, the ability to identify the main problems, see them, find the instruments to solve them, the ability to form a team of capable people, establish good relations with them, believe in them, give them a chance to think freely and come up with their own solutions, choose these solutions – which is very important – and be able to explain to millions of people the motives behind choosing these solutions, and, most importantly, have the bravery and strength of character to take responsibility for their consequences. I am not saying that Mr Zelensky lacks these qualities; he very well may possess them. There may be a lack of experience, but experience, as people say, can be gained, it comes quickly. Does he have all the other qualities that I mentioned? He very well may have, but I do not know as he has not shown them in any way so far. Pardon, bad talk? Ah, much. No, and there cannot be. I It is good that you are here at all and ask these questions. I will only add a couple of words. President Radev mentioned the issue of pricing – let us go back at least a little to discussing economic issues. He said that there is a long-term fixed price and a more flexible one. Allow me to make a small comment here. The price indeed is long-term, but not fixed. It is linked to a whole range of energy products, first and foremost, to crude oil. Oil price fluctuations lead to gas price fluctuations. The price is absolutely fair and market-oriented. This is the pricing formula. This does not mean, of course, that such a formula must continue unabated for eternity. We are ready for discussion. But this has to be done, of course, at the level of economic entities. Speaking of South Stream, many people in Bulgaria regret it falling through – I say this mildly, many of them. What did Bulgaria lose? $3 billion of investment, a thousand new high-paid jobs and $400 million worth of transit fees annually. That is it. These are the direct losses for the Bulgarian economy. And they are worth regretting. And I think it is quite clear why this happened. We will continue to do so, Mr President. You are right, I agree. Thank you very much. And I don’t see anything wrong with that. At least we can work with it. Almost everything has been said here. With a reliance on compromise, we need to seek common solutions, draft common rules and adhere to the norms of international law – what was mentioned and suggested by UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres. I fully agree with this. The issue of the North Korean nuclear programme is definitely a serious and important one not only for the region but also for the whole world. I totally agree, and we pay a lot of attention to this with our Chinese friends. Of course, I would like to reaffirm what President Xi said – the key role should belong to the countries who are the principal rivals – the United States and North Korea. Nevertheless, we have to say that North Korea abides by its obligations. First it cancelled its nuclear tests and is decommissioning one of the test sites. We hear our US partners say “No, this is not enough.” Maybe it is not enough but this is what they agreed to. On the other hand, we need to consider a mechanism to provide security for North Korea. Of course, they see the example of Iraq and Libya, and they do not want this. We must bear this in mind and take it very seriously. The nature of any guarantees can be a very complicated matter. I will not hide and I will not reveal too big a secret – this problem was also among those discussed yesterday. I do not have a complete answer now. I think, nobody has such a proposal. By the way, we also talked about this with the Americans, when Mr Pompeo visited. We, and China, are definitely interested in denuclearisation. We want it, we are pursuing it, because the spread of WMDs around the world adds up the risks and threats that we normally forget about in our everyday lives. But they are present, and they are growing, and this of course worries us. What sort of guarantees do we need? This is the key question. It must be a matter for consideration by everyone. In this case what the UN Secretary-General said is of utmost importance here – trust. Of course, we must propose some sort of a plan. Currently the process is moving along the road map worked out by Russia and China. On the whole, we are satisfied with the way the process is unfolding. We are looking forward to President Trump and the North Korean leader making an arrangement shortly, to re-establish contact and to carry the process further. We will work towards this in every way we can. We all wish Margarita Simonyan the very best. Give her our best wishes. See also All news about the trip to St Petersburg June 6 − 7, 2019
President Xi, friends, This visit of the President of the People’s Republic of China is timed to coincide with an outstanding event, the 70 th anniversary of establishing diplomatic relations between Russia and China. In 1949 our country was the first to recognise the People’s Republic of China on the next day after it was proclaimed. Over the past decades Russian-Chinese cooperation has travelled a long way and we have seen many examples of sincere mutual support, friendship and successful joint work. Today the Russian Federation and the People’s Republic of China are united by multi-faceted comprehensive strategic partnership based on the immutable principles of respecting each other’s sovereignty, national identity and interests, equality and neighbourliness. Our countries conduct an intensive political dialogue and build a broad system of mutually advantageous economic ties increasing mutual trade and investment and developing industrial and technological cooperation. Bilateral trade increased to an all-time high in 2018, reaching $108 billion. At the same time, the People’s Republic of China has firmly asserted itself as Russia’s largest business partner. Russian-Chinese energy cooperation has also become strategic. A trans-border gas pipeline will start operating in late 2019. Chinese companies are involved in producing liquefied natural gas on the Yamal Peninsula, the northernmost Russian region. Major cooperation prospects are opening up in the aerospace and military-technical sectors. Both sides are analysing plans for establishing joint innovative production facilities. I would like to note that Russian regions and Chinese provinces are actively involved in bilateral cooperation. Cross-years of Russian-Chinese interregional cooperation are being held successfully. Contacts between the citizens of our countries continue to expand, tourist and educational exchanges are also on the rise, and the Russian-Chinese cultural cooperation programme for 2017–2019 is being implemented. The programme includes a variety of festivals, concerts, film screenings and exhibitions. The people of Russia and China become closer as they gain an insight into each other’s traditions and immensely rich historical and cultural legacy. Naturally, we strive to cooperate closely on the international scene in the interests of stability, global and regional security. Our countries make a major joint contribution to resolving acute global problems and to countering new challenges and threats. They jointly advocate the creation of a new and equitable world order based on multipolar concepts, unfailing compliance with international law, the UN Charter, equality and mutually beneficial cooperation. On the whole, we can say with confidence that Russian-Chinese relations have reached an unprecedented level. Considering their tremendous potential, we have no intention of resting on our laurels. Today, we have adopted joint statements setting out new ambitious guidelines for bilateral cooperation. We are planning to expand cooperation in every field for the benefit of our two countries’ citizens and to promote sustainable development of Russia and China. See also Russian-Chinese talks June 5, 2019 Geography People's
Good afternoon. There will be no opening remarks. I am ready to answer your questions. China is a vast country. I have mentioned that according to open sources and IMF data, China is the world's top economy as regards purchasing power parity. It is considerably lower per capita than, say, in the United States, but the volume is higher. Therefore, of course, China has plans for its development, and they are immense and ambitious; when China implements anything it uses a highly pragmatic approach to achieve its tasks. China is our strategic partner; this is obvious from all indicators and parameters. China is Russia's top trading partner. Our aim in 2018 was to reach the volume of $100 billion, and we exceed that, at $108 billion. And we have good prospects for development. When the country's leadership and President Xi Jinping formulate these plans and set development tasks for themselves and for the country – this is a very pragmatic approach. Just like us or any other country, they are governed by their national interests. This is normal. China implements this in a civilised and delicate way, making sure proposals for common development meet the interests of the vast majority of international participants, if not all. Generally speaking, China has offered nothing new; what it is doing is actually making attempts to reaffirm the principles set out by the World Trade Organisation and the International Monetary Fund, and many of our colleagues are mentioning this backstage like they did at the last meeting. What is China’s goal? Stability. What is the reason for this? China's economy is immense, and the domestic market is growing. But today, what China produces is basically oriented towards foreign markets. Of course, domestic consumption will gradually increase with the overall growth of people’s incomes. Today China is interested in pushing its products to foreign markets, which is a natural aspiration for any country. For example, the Swedish economy is almost entirely focused on exports, and the same applies to the German economy. China simply has more products to offer. So how should China respond when it faces certain restrictions and attempts by some countries to stop its development? What should China do? It must strengthen the fundamental tenets of global economic relations, and create conditions for promoting its products. How can this be done? By developing transport infrastructure, port facilities, air, rail and motor transport, and building roads. This is exactly what China is doing. This was how it all started, but later it became obvious both in terms of China’s growth and for us as well, that this would not be enough. We needed to strengthen the fundamental tenets of international economic relations. Is Russia interested in this? Of course, it is. Considering the high volume of trade and the fact that it is growing, we are certainly interested in benefiting from the transit potential of the Trans-Siberian Railway and Baikal-Amur Mainline, and we intend to invest heavily in them, as well as in motor transport and roads. We have earmarked trillions of rubles for infrastructure development. Why are we doing this? In order to make effective use of our country’s transit potential and to be able to engage in mutual import and export operations. China acts in a highly civilised manner. For many years, we have been raising the issue of the need to increase the share of engineering goods in our trade. This is now beginning to materialise, which is attributable among other things to the position adopted by China’s leadership. I am very grateful to President Xi Jinping and Prime Minister Li Keqiang for their consistent efforts to improve China’s trade patterns with Russia. Does this meet our interests? Absolutely. I think that this initiative has a very bright future ahead of it, since almost all of us are interested in this, as I have already said. No one wants to face any restrictions, no one wants any trade wars, maybe with the exception of those who are behind these processes. In any case, an overwhelming majority, nearly 100 percent strongly believe that these restrictions and wars undermine the global economy and its development. As strange as it may sound, the global economy as a whole needs the liberal values that China currently champions. It is for this reason that I believe that this initiative will develop further, You know, it is hard to pinpoint something specifically. We can talk about things that matter to us in general. What matters to us is that we are building positive and business-like relations with many of our partners, with most countries of the world. Everyone I met with said they wanted to work with us. What did we do? We focused primarily on bilateral relations. In every specific case, there are certain priorities in terms of bilateral relations, since the structure of trade and economic ties varies depending on the country. That said, there are good prospects for working with all countries. Of course, there are also broader, global matters. I am referring to security matters, including regional security. How could we fail to discuss at the meeting with the President of Egypt our ambitious plans to build a nuclear power station? How could we not discuss regional developments, including in Syria and in Libya, and many other issues? I just had a number of meetings with my colleagues from European countries. Of course, I informed them about our vision of the developments in Ukraine and the implementation of the Minsk Agreements. I also made sure to inform my colleagues of the outcomes of my meeting with the North Korean leader. That is to say, we worked on a broad range of issues of mutual interest. President Xi Jinping and I barely discussed, if at all, matters related to our cooperation with Iran. We did not mention the oil-related matters either. As for whether Russia is ready to meet China’s needs, I can say that Russia is ready to meet the needs of China and many other of our partners around the world. After all, Russia is a major oil producing country. The United States currently extracts more, but we have a daily output of 11.5 million barrels. You see? And we can produce even more. It varies, with Russia, Saudi Arabia and our US partners taking turns in the role of the world’s largest oil producer. Our production volumes are more or less at the same level. Of course, we have a huge potential, but this is not the point. The thing is, we have an arrangement with OPEC whereby we committed ourselves to keep our output at a certain level. This deal expires in July 2019, while the decisions by the US to impose various sanctions against Iran are to come into force, if I am not mistaken, in early May. I have no idea how the global energy market will respond to these developments. We have a deal with OPEC and we are honouring our commitments. As far as I know, all our partners within OPEC, including Saudi Arabia, remain committed to the OPEC+ deal. It is hard to say what will happen with the global energy market. We did not discuss this with our Chinese friends. As to discussions of this issue, I think that, as regards 'scare stories' about Russia's budget, these stories are undoubtedly being spread by people or political forces that do not want Russia to support the people who reside in Donbass. This is the first thing. The second is we are extending such a procedure of obtaining our citizenship not only to residents of the Lugansk People's Republic and Donetsk People's Republic; we are thinking about simplifying the procedure of granting Russian citizenship to all Ukrainian citizens in general. As to meeting or not meeting our social obligations to our citizens in Russia, there is no doubt that everything – social payments, pensions and pension hikes – will be executed. We have no doubts regarding this. There will be no serious burden on the Russian budget related to possible setbacks in the work of Russia's social system, this is absolutely out of the question. This is not a spontaneous decision; before signing the executive order, I will single out several aspects here. First, you mentioned that the Syrian opposition believes that President Bashar al-Assad's Government is trying to impose their will as winners. In that case, we should note that the opposition consider Mr al-Assad and the Government as winners. And this is true, this is things stand. Second, I do not think that President al-Assad is imposing his opinion on anyone. We have taken active joint efforts to draw up these lists, but have worked particularly actively since our meeting in Istanbul, where we agreed that Russia was to undertake receiving a list of people for this Constitutional Committee from Damascus' officials, while the Republic of Turkey would be responsible for the list from the entire opposition. I should remind you that after extensive work with President al-Assad, his assistants and the Syrian Government, we received this list. But then it turned out that the representative of the UN Secretary-General disagreed with that list as he considered a number of persons presented by the opposition, six in all, as not meeting the interests of the opposition in a broad sense of this word. We found this somewhat odd because we had agreed that Turkey was responsible for the opposition’s list, and Turkey had coordinated it with us. If something had been wrong, then our colleagues from France, Germany and the United States should have told us they were not comfortable with things. But nothing was said, and the list was simply torpedoed. Well, we did not take offence at that, we continued our efforts. We continued working with both Damascus and the opposition. We agreed to coordinate the replacement of those six individuals that the opposition allegedly was not satisfied with. We did this too. And now we hear that someone is still unhappy with something. Reaching a complete consensus is quite a challenging task due to the lack of unity within the opposition with its multiple points of view and diverse groups. It is also obvious that it is influenced from the outside. At the end of the day, we still need to draw a bottom line and agree on this list. We are ready to continue this work. In any case, no one can blame President al-Assad for undermining the efforts to form this committee. President al-Assad, Russia and, by the way, our Iranian partners went to great lengths to reach compromise. If anyone is currently seeking to derail the creation of the Constitutional Committee, it is the opposition, which is regrettable in our view. Still, we will work with all opposition groups patiently and persistently in order to ensure that this committee is formed since this is the only way to lay the foundation for a large-scale political process. As for the Idlib zone, let me reiterate what I I announced back in Vladivostok that I will not fail to inform our Chinese partners and friends about the results of my talks with Kim Jong-un in Vladivostok. I did it, and there is nothing unusual about it. We always share information with each other on talks of this kind. This was one of such cases. I briefed President Xi Jinping on these issues during our talks, and we exchanged views on the developments on the Korean Peninsula. We have a Russian-Chinese initiative that we refer to as the Russian-Chinese settlement plan, a roadmap. We believe that its first part has been by and large implemented. We have to see what is written there, since there is nothing secret there. We now need to move on to the second part, which consists of normalising relations between the conflicting sides. After all, the conflicting sides have been in a state of war against one another since the Korean War. We need to address fundamental matters and move on in order to create conditions that would be an adequate security guarantee for North Korea. We have not discussed any new plans. It is not that we need any, since we have to implement what we had already agreed upon. This is what we are doing. Yes, we briefly exchanged opinions on this issue, and, of course, I am aware of what happened there, although I do not know all the details. In order to understand what happened there we need to investigate. The primary objective would be to carry out an investigation within Transneft in order to identify the location from where contaminated oil got into the system, why this happened, and what exactly was injected into the pipeline, etc. This investigation is underway. If a corporate investigation is not enough, I cannot rule out a more thorough probe by our law enforcement agencies and special services. The Foreign Ministry has already given a comment on Maria Butina’s 18-month sentence. I think the Ministry has made it clear that this is total lawlessness. That is what it is. It is unclear why she was convicted or what crime she had committed. I think this is a case of keeping up appearances or struggling to save face. The girl was seized, detained, put behind bars, while there were no charges to be made against her. There was nothing to indict her for. However, to make sure that did not look totally absurd, they sentenced her to 18 months to show that she was guilty of something. Regarding the first part of your question on Saudi Arabia’s stance on possible replacement of Iranian oil, which will be exiting the market. I actually hope that in the end, this will not happen, but we can talk about it hypothetically. As I have already said, we have agreements within the OPEK+. We honour our agreements. We have no information from our Saudi partners or anybody else, from OPEK members, that they are ready to scrap the agreements. We have not been approached on these issues. Moreover, I think it unlikely because it was Saudi Arabia that initiated the OPEK+ agreements and engaged Russia in them. Six hours, six hours a day. It is all right. I would fall asleep, have five and half to six hours sleep. It is all right, I get enough sleep. You see, Vladimir Zelensky has not yet been canonised as a saint, nor is he our Lord, and I should hardly appear before him in any role whatsoever. If we should have a meeting, have some talks launched, which I do not rule out, we will have to speak first of all about how to end the conflict in Ukraine’s southeast. And as I see it, Does this make you an agent? If you are from an agency, and you are an employee of an agency, hence you are an agent. Two companies, 10 percent each. Certainly not. Just the contrary. No, not at all. The Arctic LNG is a new project. It will be carried out over the course of several years and the amounts of natural gas required by China are truly enormous. Moreover, our Chinese partners are now asking us to consider the possibility of increasing supplies via the Sila Sibiri gas pipeline, which we will be put into operation at the end of this year. This is possible technologically and we will do it. Arctic LNG is liquefied gas and we have no problems with it at all. This is a new field. We will carry out all supplies from the old fields and will even try to have enough at home. Our domestic problem is that the European part has been supplied with gas since the Soviet times but there was nothing in the East. Our task is to develop a gas infrastructure in the eastern part of Russia, beyond the Urals, and then to link these systems – the western and eastern parts so as to be able to do crossflows and operate simultaneously both inside and outside the country, being very flexible in supplying the foreign market. Depending on the requirements, we would send gas to Europe or more to the East, if the demand is bigger. We have now doubled LNG supplies fairly quickly. But we have ambitious goals. We want to bring them to 100 million tonnes. The world market will swallow it and ask for more. Therefore, we have no doubt at all that we will meet all our commitments on pipeline gas and will increase our LNG production as well. All right, one final question and we will go. Has LUKOIL incited you to ask this question? We are discussing this with our colleagues, including those from private companies. This is really a very serious and important question. It is not that companies with state participation like Gazprom or Rosneft are unable to do this and find these resources. As you know, when something is done for the market and when a project is obviously beneficial economically, it is not difficult to find the funding. It is impossible to shut it down with any restrictions. They will be pleased to come and do it. But the question is not to produce more, although we are facing this task. Why have we agreed to work together with the Saudis and our other friends from OPEC? Because we realise that we need to keep the market in check and pursue some coordinated price policy. The same is true of gas. There is not much difference, it is a demand-and-supply issue. Of course, these are costly projects both in oil and gas, but we must calculate how effective the investment will be, how the market will respond and whether it can accept such amounts without a sharp drop in price. This is the whole problem. This is not about us artificially excluding domestic private companies. No, we will reach agreement with them if we see that they are ready to cope with such projects. Let me repeat that these projects are capital intensive. You know that Gazprom and Rosneft are real giants. It will be even more difficult for smaller companies to attract funds. But we do not say that we will not involve them in this work, either. Maybe, we will do this together with companies with state participation. We do not rule out anything. The only question is when the market will be ready for this, when we will be prepared for this technologically and when it will make sense economically. The economic aspect is the most important one. Thank you very much. I wish you all the best. See also Roundtable discussion at Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation April 27, 2019 Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation April 26, 2019 Geography People's
Mr Chairman, Mr Xi Jinping, colleagues, It is obvious that ensuring stable and sustained economic growth and strengthening comprehensive links between countries and integration associations on the Eurasian subcontinent requires an advanced transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructure, as President Xi Jinping and Ms Lagarde have just said. I should note that Russia is currently implementing comprehensive national projects, which cover major sectors crucial for dynamic economic development. Most significantly, we allocate resources to infrastructure programmes worth hundreds of billion dollars in investment. See also Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation April 26, 2019 The implementation of the long-term tasks we set in the infrastructure development area will undoubtedly have a great synergistic effect – hopefully, not only for Russia but for the entire Eurasian region as well. As regards the transport infrastructure, its modernisation and expansion is Russia's major priority. The Safe and Quality Roads national project will receive some 4.3 trillion rubles until 2024 . We will also allocate 6.35 trillion rubles for a comprehensive programme for developing trunk road infrastructure . We are making consistent efforts to modernise the Trans-Siberian Railway and the Baikal–Amur Mainline, which connect Russia's European part with its Far East. We plan to raise their capacity 1.5-fold and increase the volume of annually transported cargo to 210 million tonnes by 2025. We are paying particular attention to the development of the Northern Sea Route and considering the opportunity to connect it to China's Maritime Silk Road and thus create a global and competitive route that will connect Northeast Asia, East Asia and Southeast Asia with Europe. Such an ambitious project implies close cooperation between Eurasian countries in boosting cargo transportation as well as constructing port terminals and logistics centres. We invite the countries present here to join in its implementation. The development of the International North–South Transport Corridor of over 7,000 km offers new prospects as well. It will include establishing railway and road transportation, which will allow for a considerable growth of cargo traffic from South Asia through Iran, Azerbaijan and Russia to Europe. As regards improving the Eurasian transport infrastructure, Russia is closely cooperating with its partners in the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation, which is implementing the Agreement on Creating Favourable Conditions for International Road Transportation. In accordance with the agreement, six new routes will be launched next year, including the Western Europe – Western China transit corridor that will connect the Yellow Sea ports of the People's Republic of China with ports in Russia's Leningrad Region. Therefore, our aim is to develop Russia's nationwide transportation network with a view to its integration with Eurasian countries' transportation arteries. Another fundamentally important area of cooperation to provide interconnection in the Eurasian continent is creating a common energy infrastructure. As you may know, Russia is taking active efforts to expand the oil and gas pipeline trans-border network. The construction of the Power of Siberia natural gas pipeline is in full swing to provide safe and uninterrupted deliveries of natural gas to China and the entire Asia-Pacific region. The construction of gas pipelines in Russia's
Events Vladimir Putin received honorary doctorate at Tsinghua University University Rector Qiu Yong presented the certificate to the President of Russia. PRC President Xi Jinping attended the ceremony. April 26, 2019 07:45 Beijing Tsinghua University, one of the leading Chinese universities, was founded in 1911. The university always places first in the national ranking of educational institutions. University alumni include many renowned individuals, such as PRC presidents Hu Jintao and Xi Jinping. Geography People's Republic of China Topics Foreign policy Universities Publication status Published in sections: News , Transcripts Publication date: April 26, 2019, 07:45 Direct link: en.kremlin.ru/d/60380 Text version
President Xi Jinping, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank my good friend President of China Xi Jinping for inviting me to attend the second Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation. I would like to express my appreciation for the opportunity to be here in such a large representative group and to meet with each other, to discuss current issues of global development and principles of cooperation. I have listened with great interest – as I am sure many other people in this hall have – about the principles and goals of China’s development, that is, how the People’s Republic of China, the world’s largest economy today in terms of purchasing power parity, is planning to develop and build relationships with its partners. This is of fundamental importance both for Russia and, I am sure, for many of our colleagues who have gathered here in Beijing today. It is obvious that the implementation of this ambitious project, Belt and Road , promoted by our Chinese colleagues, is aimed at strengthening the constructive cooperation of the Eurasian states. Its truly unifying goal is to ensure harmonious and sustainable economic development and economic growth throughout the Eurasian space. Russia has emphasised on numerous occasions that PRC President’s Belt and Road initiative rimes with Russia’s idea to establish a Greater Eurasian Partnership, a project designed to ‘integrate integration frameworks’, and therefore to promote a closer alignment of various bilateral and multilateral integration processes that are currently underway in Eurasia. Russia is ready to undertake efforts for creating a transparent and enabling environment in order to promote cooperation across Eurasia. It is important that we come up with effective ways of responding to the risks of a fragmented global political, economic and technological landscape and growing protectionism, with illegitimate unilateral restrictions imposed bypassing the UN Security Council or, even worse, trade wars as its most dangerous expressions. It is our firm belief that only by working together can we counter urgent challenges such as decelerating economic growth, the deepening prosperity gap among nations as well as technological backwardness. Let me repeat what I
In historical terms, the two years that have passed since the first Belt and Road international forum in Beijing are a short span of time. However, it is already clear that President Xi Jinping’s initiative is really opening up extensive opportunities for equitable partnership. Our Chinese friends take a creative approach to promoting international economic cooperation, and seek to contribute to consolidating interconnected relationships and ensuring sustainable development in the whole of Eurasia. Such a desire can only be welcomed. Naturally, it is important for China to successfully promote this large-scale project. And all Eurasian states should stand to gain from participation in it. It should help them build up their economic potential, make them more competitive and increase their living standards. To achieve this it is necessary to take into account the interests of all partners and to promote the harmonisation of national programmes and development plans. It is necessary not only to trade but also to promote mutual investment and carry out joint infrastructure, transport, logistics and environmental projects; to encourage industrial and technological cooperation, scientific and academic exchanges, and step up people-to-people contacts. Russia also has its own vision for the future of regional integration. Together with other member states of the Eurasian Economic Union we are consistently searching for the optimal model of cooperation. I am referring to the plans to form the Greater Eurasian Partnership or, in other words, a broad network of regional integration associations developing in a coordinated way, based on the principles of equality, openness, mutual respect and consideration of each other’s interests. It is hard to overstate China’s role in this as Russia’s strategic partner. After all, the formation of Greater Eurasia essentially amounts to coupling the EAEU and the Belt and Road concept. Indeed, in May 2015, President Xi Jinping and I agreed to link the construction of the Eurasian Economic Union and the Silk Road Economic Belt. This truly historic initiative was supported by the leaders of all the EAEU member states. On May 17, 2018, the Agreement on Trade and Economic Cooperation between the EAEU and China was signed as a follow-up to this initiative. We expect this document to enter into force within the next few months, and the parties will immediately begin to implement it. Practical cooperation between the Eurasian Economic Commission and the Government of the People's Republic of China will need to be put on solid footing and made systematic. Our top priority will be to set up a Joint Commission tasked with reviewing specific initiatives to couple the EAEU with China’s Belt and Road initiative. We believe that projects in transport, energy, environment, trade, finance and the digital economy will enjoy priority. I am confident that following the upcoming 2 nd Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation in Beijing, in which I plan to take part, the integration processes promoted by our countries in the Eurasian space will receive another powerful boost. You correctly noted that I regularly meet with President Xi Jinping. I value the relations of friendship and mutual respect that have developed between us, which make it possible to build on bilateral cooperation in all areas from politics and trade to military-technical and humanitarian areas. Of course, that kind of trust-based dialogue helps more effectively coordinate the positions of Russia and China on key issues of the international and regional agenda and jointly develop responses to the most pressing challenges of our time. As I noted earlier, our next meeting will take place in Beijing quite soon. We will talk not only during the Belt and Road Forum, which I already mentioned, but will also hold talks as part of the bilateral meeting of the leaders of Russia and China. And we look forward to President Xi Jinping’s visit to Russia this year. It would be no exaggeration to say that our countries have approached this anniversary with relations the best they have been in their entire history. This is the result of meticulous and successful work over the past thirty years. Russia and China have fully normalised bilateral ties and raised them to the level of strategic partnership. They have resolved all sensitive issues, including the border one. The further deepening of cooperation between the two states promises to be sustainable and long-term, because it is not opportunistic. This is entirely in the interests of our peoples and the tasks of maintaining international and regional security and stability. The political dialogue between Russia and China is based on mutual trust and respect, and the fact that we always take each other’s approaches and positions into consideration. We have developed contacts at all levels – from the very top to the expert level. Our parliaments, public organisations and, of course, business communities are actively engaged in our common efforts. Our military and military-technical cooperation points to the high level of trust. Russia and China hold regular joint exercises and share our accumulated experience in military development. Our cooperation on security and combatting terrorism and organised crime is making rapid headway. We have managed to substantially increase our mutual trade. In 2018 it exceeded a record $100 billion. We are making consistent progress in investment, financial, energy and high-tech cooperation. Importantly, ties between the regions of Russia and China are expanding. The current cross years of interregional cooperation will give an additional boost to these efforts. We are paying significant attention to expanding people-to-people exchanges. Many projects have been carried out under the cross years. And, of course, “people’s diplomacy,” direct contacts between our citizens, young people, play a big role in strengthening the foundation of bilateral relations. I am convinced that the potential of the Russia-China partnership is truly inexhaustible. Naturally, the forthcoming celebration of the 70 th anniversary of diplomatic relations will further reveal this potential and deepen our friendly, mutually beneficial dialogue in all areas. Russia-China foreign policy interaction is an important stabilising factor in international affairs, all the more so as our countries have overlapping or very close positions on the key issues of our time. Unfortunately, some Western countries are claiming sole global leadership. They carelessly trample on the norms and principles of international law, resort to blackmail, sanctions and pressure, and try to force their values ​​and dubious ideals on entire countries and populations. We are categorically opposed to such approaches. In order to improve the international situation and to form a more equitable and democratic global architecture, we will continue to closely coordinate Russia and China’s steps on important global and regional issues, and productively cooperate at leading multilateral venues such as the UN, G20, SCO, BRICS and APEC. At the same time, we remain open to cooperation and joint work with like-minded people, including everyone who is interested in promoting state-to-state communication on the unshakable foundation of the UN Charter and international law. Indeed, Chinese tourists are clearly in the lead among foreign tourists coming to Russia. Over the past five years, their number has almost doubled, increasing by 93 percent. Last year alone, about 1,700,000 Chinese tourists visited our country. It is our sincere pleasure to have them as guests. Moscow and St Petersburg remain Chinese tourists’ favourite destinations. However, they want to see other Russian regions as well, including the famous Golden Ring in central Russia, the Urals and Siberia, the Russian Far East and the Caucasus. For example, more and more guests from China are going to Sochi, which, following the successful 2014 Winter Olympics, now boasts high-quality resort and sports infrastructure. Russia is home to 29 sites included on UNESCO’s World Heritage Site list. This number puts Russia in the top 10 countries in the world. These sites include the cultural and historical ensembles of Novgorod, Sergiyev Posad, Kazan, Yaroslavl, Derbent, the white stone temples of Vladimir and Suzdal, Sviyazhsk, Kizhi Pogost, the Solovki historical and cultural complex and other works by our architects. Nature has generously endowed Russia with gems such as the world’s deepest and cleanest lake, Baikal, the volcanoes and geysers of Kamchatka, the Golden Mountains of Altai, the forests of the Komi Republic, the Curonian Spit, Central Sikhote-Alin, the nature of Wrangel Island, the Lena River Pillars and the Putorana Plateau. Visiting memorable sites connected with the history of the revolutionary movement and the lives of Soviet party and state leaders is another area of interest for Chinese tourists. A region unlike any other, Crimea deserves special mention. In recent years, the tourism industry has been rapidly expanding on the peninsula. Extensive infrastructure is being created and new modern hotels and resorts are being built. All this, combined with the unfailing cordiality and hospitality of the locals, creates excellent opportunities for exciting and rewarding trips. I
Mr Niinistö, Mr Jóhannesson, Ms Solberg, Mr Löfven, ladies and gentlemen, friends, I am happy to welcome you to St Petersburg, the northern capital of Russia whose history is closely connected with legendary Arctic expeditions, industrial exploration of this unique region and preservation of its nature and unique culture. I would like to ask the moderator to give me two minutes for some comments on the speeches of my colleagues. Do you mind? Thank you very much. First of all, we have discrepancies with Sauli on data relating to warming in the Arctic. According to our data, the Arctic is warming four times faster than the rest of the world, and Russia is warming 2.5 times faster than the rest of the world. These may be different calculations, but both of these are really disturbing trends. As for soot, I know this is a serious question, Sauli and I also discussed it. We also have different calculations concerning these emissions in different countries, including in Russia, the differences are dozens of times. But I gave him an example, told him that in the ancient sediments of ice, we can observe large inclusions of soot. It was in the Middle Ages, perhaps even earlier, when there were no industrial emissions. The fact is that a volcano may produce more emissions than humanity, whose emissions are associated with road transport. Nevertheless, this question is very important, and our experts are also working on it. But what is extremely important, in my opinion, and here I fully agree with Sauli, is that if ships switch to more environmentally friendly types of fuel, and I mean primarily gas fuel, especially ships that navigate in the northern seas, in the Arctic zone, this is of course extremely important. It is absolutely obvious. And it would be necessary to encourage shipbuilding companies and carriers to use such types of transport and such fuel. I was patient, while you were saying all this, you too please bear with me. The United States of America ranks second. And the United States of America, on a par with Canada, is a country in the Arctic zone. But unlike the United States, we signed and executed the Tokyo Agreement, and signed the Paris Agreement and are going to implement it. Moreover, Russia undertook to reduce emissions by 25–30 percent from the level of 1990. This is a large load. And as the President of Finland said, we are now planning the ratification; of course, we will do this after a comprehensive analysis of the consequences of the implementation of these decisions, but nevertheless we are moving in this direction. Although I have already mentioned this, the causes of the warming are still unknown. We are not sure whether it is related to emissions or some other more global causes. This is the question. However, we cannot go wrong by reducing anthropogenic emissions, and Russia has undertaken such commitments. However, Russia is not the world’s largest economy. We rank sixth in terms of the volume of our economy and purchasing power parity. We come sixth after China, the United States, India, Japan and Germany. We will do our best to move up, of course. Now, regarding “from here we will face a Swede, here the city will be laid, in spite of the arrogant neighbour” , I would like to mention another poem, Poltava. It has the following lines about the Battle of Poltava “Hurrah! The Swedes are broken…“ These lines come to mind when we watch the game between the Russian national football team and Tre Kronor. Unfortunately for our fans, we are unable to cite these lines too often now, I have told you that we do not see the transition. What we see is the man's efforts to develop alternative energy sources, but so far there is no critical transition from hydrocarbons to renewable sources – critical from the standpoint of those who produce oil, gas and coal. This is not even about oil, gas or residual oil. Currently, thermal power stations are using coal, not even residual oil, oil or gas. And gas, by the way, is the most eco-friendly type of fuel of all the hydrocarbon sources. Coal is the most common fuel the world is burning today, and this is what we have to think about. And the volume of this remains the same. Some countries are reducing it, but overall it is not changing worldwide. This is the issue to consider. Basically, I do not see any threats here. By the way, here in Russia we are working to develop alternative energy sources as well; we are making an active effort and will continue to do so. But I do not see any threat here, there isn’t any. Speaking of high costs, you mentioned oil production in, say, the United States. But we know how oil is extracted there – by hydraulic fracturing, the most environmentally hazardous method of extracting hydrocarbons. In certain US states, where oil is extracted using this method, people have dark sludge instead of clean tap water – you probably know this better than me. Efforts are probably made to rectify this, but it is a difficult task. The profitability of oil extracted using this method is much higher than extracting oil and gas in Russia in the most remote regions. That is why we feel confident in this regard. What’s more, if oil falls below $40, oil production profitability and extraction growth will be questioned. Of course, technology is advancing, and the cost of such production will drop and fall below $40 a barrel; maybe it will be at $35–40 – but oil production costs are lower in Russia anyway, let alone gas; I won’t even cite figures so that I don’t scare anyone. It is much lower than in the United States or Europe, and even in certain oil-producing countries in the Middle East. I have already said that we are planning to create, are creating and will keep creating an environment that is beneficial for the companies working in the harsh Arctic conditions. This is not just about underdeveloped infrastructure, but about the need to invest in technology that would 100 percent ensure the conservation of nature. It is so fragile in the Arctic region; we all know that, every colleague of mine sitting here knows all about it. That is the first thing. Second, when organising work like this, we have to think about the interests of the indigenous peoples of the North. Their interests are an additional burden on the companies, and the state must take on that burden to a large extent as well.  Yes, I do; actually, I am eager to. Once again we return to sanctions, to Crimea and so forth. If I am not mistaken, Crimea is not part of the Arctic region, but I would like to say a few words nevertheless. We all came here to discuss issues related to the Artic region. We would not like to see the Arctic turn into something akin to Crimea and Crimea turn into a desert as a result of certain measures not being taken in time , as a result of our criminal omission. That is what all of us must think about today. That is what all of us are discussing today, too. These are not just empty words, by the way; if you take a look at the sediments discovered in the Arctic, you will find the remains of tropical plants, tropical animals. This means, this happened before, some time in history. We must understand what is going on with the planet, and act together accordingly. I will make another historical digression. A lot of time has passed since our reformer Peter the Great and romantic King Charles XII of Sweden fought against each other and divided the territories. Now there are problems that we are discussing today that can only be resolved through concerted effort. This is the reason we’re meeting here today. I think our meeting will be useful. As for the EU and the exchange of sanction strikes, you are certainly aware of things. Bloomberg cannot fail to know this. Based on European Commission estimates, I think in 2015 or 2016 the European Union lost about 50 billion euros, while Russia lost about 25–26 billion euros. It is clear that the EU is losing more than us. The German numbers, in the estimate of analysts from Germany, missed gains run as much as 56 billion, whereas ours are three times less. But we are not happy about losing less. No, I am saying that there are common losses and this means real damage. Now, regarding the very character of the sanctions. First, for any sanction to be legal it needs to be authorized by the UN Security Council. But this is not happening, so they are illegal. This is the first point. And now the second point that I consider the most important one. For some reason nobody imposes sanctions for interfering in the domestic affairs of other countries, for disrupting internal political life or for shattering entire states. Nobody imposes sanctions against those who reduce countries to a position where they are compelled to take certain measures to protect their interests. Let’s just return to the observance of the basic rules of international law and the UN Charter. Probably, in this case there will be no need to think about the aftermath of bombing Yugoslavia or other things linked to such flagrant violations of international law and their consequences. Let’s simply return to normal political life and realise that the world is interdependent and that we should work together to achieve a common result. Russia’s future does not depend on sanctions. Russia’s future only depends on how effectively we will be able to transform our political system, how democratic it will be, how well it will bring to the surface the healthiest forces in society and the creative energy of our citizens. On how effectively we will be able to harness it, how well we will be able to utilise the internal resources of the Russian economy. I said that we invested over 600 billion last year in import replacement. And it has been effective. We have great science and education. We must keep it all in proper shape and move forward. And I am confident that we can do so, including when implementing the national projects. Sanctions are a tool which must be in the sole possession of the United Nations Security Council. All other matters should be resolved through dialogue rather than imposing one’s own agenda on other countries. That is all there is to it. Today, sanctions are being used not as a tool of geopolitical struggle but simply as an element of competition. Take Nord Stream 2, for example. Our US friends are fighting it. But it is definitely profitable for our European partners. “No, do not build it!” It is hard to work with the European Union as there are many countries there and nearly everything is decided by consensus. We have already worked with Turkey to build TurkStream along the Black Sea bed. TurkStream will launch later this year. Yet we still cannot come to terms with the Europeans. Our US partners opposed, in exactly the same way, the “pipes for gas” project in the 1960s that we pursued with the Federal Republic of Germany. It was exactly the same. It was the same with Nord Stream 1. What would global energy look like now if there were no Nord Stream 1? I can give you the answer. Prices would be even higher than they are now, simple as that. Do you want to buy mineral resources at higher prices? No. I do not know what else should be done to pressure the European countries. Only to make up the difference between our natural gas and US LNG from their national budgets because it is impossible under market conditions to make customers buy 30 percent more expensive goods. It is impossible, they will just refuse to buy. Households will not simply pay up. So what must be done to break even? To cover the difference with funds from the budget. But this is the height of cynicism. I think if things keep going like this, it will happen. But it is not our choice, it is our European partners’ choice. How about demands to increase defence spending? What do you think this is connected with? Do you think it is connected with the overall deterioration of the international situation? No, it is just a pretext. The main motive is to fill up the US military-industrial complex with additional European money. This is where the main answers lie. And for this not to happen, let us go back to abiding by the elementary norms of international law. We have spoken about that many times.  I think the Russian Ministry of Energy should agree with my opinion. I would prioritise our work appropriately. And I must tell you that common practice in the Russian Government is to always keep in touch, always discuss these issues collectively, keeping in mind the interests of the Russian economy and its various sectors. We do not advocate the uncontrolled growth of prices, because even though we aim to diversify the Russian economy, even now, it is not entirely dependent on oil and gas, but also on industrial production. But domestic industrial production is also affected by exorbitant price increases. Therefore, we are balanced on the development of the global energy market. We are quite satisfied with today's prices, and we see production volumes in the United States growing. Yes, the United States consumes significantly more than we do. We produce 11.5 million barrels per day, but in the US, output is even higher now. This situation suits us as it is today, but we closely watch the market of course, together with our partners, primarily the major oil producers like Saudi Arabia and the Gulf states. We agreed that if cooperation is required, we will meet and discuss it in the second half of the year. In any case, we are ready to cooperate further with OPEC to work out common solutions. I would be that careful with wording. We will be ready to continue cooperating. As to whether that cooperation implies another decrease, or keeping production flat as it is now, I cannot say yet. We have plans for our companies to develop new deposits, and we also approach this carefully. We understand that production should not stop, investment should flow into the industry, otherwise it can also create problems for us and for the global energy industry. So, we will find balanced solutions. But we will continue to cooperate with OPEC. And I would still like to return to your previous question about these tensions. In reality, I do not see any particular military tensions here in the Arctic. They do not exist. The only thing is that NATO held the region’s largest exercises. This is true. We do not conduct such exercises in the region. We held large-scale exercises but very far from NATO’s zone of responsibility. It was in the East. This is the first point. Second, I would like everyone to know that we invite foreign observers to all of our exercises without exception. Always. We have certain agreements. We have always had them. Now about aircraft. Our combat aircraft do not fly over Norwegian territory. They have not and, I hope, will not fly there. Yes, they fly in the neutral air space. The aircraft of the country near which our aircraft routes pass, accompany them. Madame Prime Minister is right. We also accompany NATO aircraft if they fly near our borders or ships. So I do not see any major threats here. These activities should simply be kept under control. As a representative of a neutral country, the President of Finland suggested some time ago that war planes should fly with switched on transponders, that is, devices that identify aircraft. We agreed and instantly submitted this proposal in the framework of our relations with NATO. NATO’s reply was negative. Go and ask them why they do not agree. I think this is an absolutely sound proposal. Technically, this is not a simple solution but I gave relevant instructions to the General Staff and the Defence Ministry and they are ready to implement them. Let NATO do the same. In this case it will be clear what aircraft, military aircraft, is flying and where it is located at any given moment. We are an order of magnitude less active in the Baltic and the Arctic than NATO. It is necessary to know this. Yes, of course, we are thinking about it. Indeed, the crisis in Venezuela and Iran, but actually, there is no crisis in Iran – only the sanctions that restrict the country’s access to world markets. In some African countries, including Libya, yes, we see all this and take it into account. And this is what I had in mind when I said that we would closely monitor the market. We also keep in mind that the global consumption of hydrocarbons, including oil, increases in the summer. We will see. But at this time the world's reserves do not require any special action. Our companies have plans, as I said, to develop new deposits, so we must also consider this and assist our companies. We can provide different kinds of assistance. They can start drilling now, or we can ensure them a break-even or profitable operation using various state support tools. We have our own opinions on this. We will closely monitor the market, and will make decisions based on the situation. But cooperation with OPEC will continue. We haven’t actually reduced it, just refrained from increasing it. But if the market situation develops in such a way that reserves increase dramatically, for example, if the United States were to seize Venezuelan oil and quickly increase availability in world markets, load their own refineries to capacity, and channel their oil to the world market. Or these may be some other positive developments, let's say in Libya, from the political point of view, suppose the country stabilises overall, and enters world markets. Or suddenly, someone decides it’s time to let up on Iran, but to try and create conditions for Iran and Israel to agree somehow, and the situation normalises, and Iran sends additional crude to the markets. Then we would need to consider the changes and make an appropriate decision. You are trying to squeeze a more specific answer from me – but you are not getting it. We will cooperate with OPEC and make a decision depending on the market. I beg the pardon of my colleagues, but I have nothing to do with it. You know, we have a good book called The Twelve Chairs and there is a President Trump knows best. We know from US history what a witch hunt is. It is a dark chapter in US history. We would rather it never repeats. You know, I have already said that we disagree on many international issues, on problems related to the resolution of some crises. But we also have some elements of cooperation. However different the approaches we take to settling the Syrian crisis, there is still cooperation there, we work together. We have common problems in the Arctic, and we have gathered here, by the way, to solve and discuss them. The United States has many interests of its own in the Arctic zone. We face many problems related to climate change in general. We know that the US did not sign the Paris Agreement, and the US Administration has its own reasons and logic. I am not among those who feel the current Administration should be attacked for this, we just need to engage in dialogue. And in that case I think we will be able to try to find a common solution. Because it is hard to expect effective work from the international community without US participation in the process, or China’s or India’s participation, for example. The US is a big emitter. It is obvious, and we must acknowledge it. This is why a solution must be found, the US should be brought on board and invited to engage in dialogue. On the whole, as I see it, Mr Trump does not refuse. That is number one, and even number two. Third, I feel that many bilateral matters are currently perceived under the pressure of the domestic political situation. We hope when the situation gets back to normal, prospects will open for cooperation, including bilateral, on the issues I mentioned. And they include terrorism, epidemics and the environment. Actually, there are many issues, including arms control. I think we are all interested in that but we will start working when the conditions in the US are right. It does not depend on whether we want it or not. What does that even mean, to want it or not? This is not an area where such categories can be applied. We respect the choice of the American people. We are ready to work with their president whoever it might be. Excuse me, there is something very important, as far as the Northern Sea Route is concerned. Say it takes you 33 days to get from Yokohama to Rotterdam via the Indian Ocean and 20 days via the Northern Sea Route, as the distance between these cities via the Northern Sea Route is slightly over 7,000 kilometres – 7,300 – and is almost 12,000 kilometres via the Indian Ocean. This is the point – it saves you a lot of fuel and time, and so, of course, it will be very attractive not only to China, Japan, South Korea and Indonesia but it may even evolve into a very interesting and promising area of international cooperation that will bring people together, rather than drive them apart. I believe the development of the Arctic is likely to give us the following main advantages. First, as I mentioned earlier, these are global resources and they should work for the benefit of humankind. It is important that they are used in the service of humankind, in keeping with certain international rules and agreements between the countries of the region and other players. This is the most important thing, on a par with the need to make use of additional transit and communications opportunities. I believe the main threat is, primarily, the threat to the environment. We are worried about polar bears. This is a figure of speech; we are worried about the fauna in general, as risks related to warming and, probably, to the development of the Arctic and economic activity in the area will grow. We must take this into consideration. That is why it is so important that we have gathered today and will continue to meet, including at the Arctic Council headed by our colleague to my left. All decisions by the Arctic Council are nothing more than recommendations but these are very important recommendations, which have great moral and political significance and all players implementing their national projects cannot fail to take them into account. This work has to be coordinated. So, cooperation in the Arctic offers a good example – and it is also an important advantage – of how we can jointly look for solutions to the issues on the global agenda. Thank you very much. I would like to express my gratitude to you and my colleagues who came to St Petersburg today to discuss these issues. See also Meeting with President of Finland Sauli Niinistö April 9, 2019
Mr President, Colleagues, friends, I am happy to welcome all of you, all participants in the Eighth – already the eight one – Russia-Kyrgyzstan Interregional Conference. Regular meetings in this format, as the President of Kyrgyzstan rightly noted, are very important and in demand. They provide heads of regions and local governments, representatives of expert and business circles, as well as public organisations with an opportunity to directly discuss current issues of cooperation, to align positions, and to jointly develop plans to expand mutually beneficial cooperation. As a result, interregional cooperation is being fleshed out with real substance; it is making a contribution to the development of the full range of bilateral relations and helping to strengthen the strategic partnership and alliance of Russia and Kyrgyzstan. This is why we immediately supported the initiative of the President of Kyrgyzstan to attend the plenary session together. I would like to note that the issue of regional cooperation was also brought up during the constructive and fruitful talks the President and I had today. This is only logical, given that 71 Russian regions maintain direct relations with Kyrgyzstan and Kyrgyz partners. During this visit, as far as I am aware, the Sverdlovsk and Tyumen regions, as well as the Komi and Bashkortostan republics, signed an agreement on trade, economic, scientific, technical and cultural cooperation. In short, I can sense that the representatives of the two countries are ready to do business and work together productively. The impressive mix of conference participants speaks to this. According to our Kyrgyz friends, this conference has brought together over 800 delegates from 18 Russian regions and seven Kyrgyz regions, including 12 regional heads, as well as officials from the key economic ministries and agencies of both countries. I also believe our main subject for discussion to be important and topical. I mean new horizons of interregional cooperation considering the integration processes that are becoming deeper in Eurasia. For more than four years now, Russia and Kyrgyzstan cooperate within the Eurasian Economic Union. The advantage of integration is evident. The Kyrgyz economy is growing stably. The dynamics of Kyrgyzstan’s Colleagues, the President has been in office for eighteen months, and during this time we have seen considerable invigoration of our interstate ties and interregional contacts. The Kyrgyz economy is making steady headway, maintaining the pace and building up cooperation. I would like to draw your attention to this and reaffirm what our colleagues have said here, notably that Kyrgyzstan is creating very good and stable conditions for cooperation and investment. This means a lot for business, in part, for them to be confident. I would like to express the hope that our colleagues from both sides – Kyrgyz and Russian – will avail themselves of this opportunity and the results will be meaningful and obvious both to Russia and Kyrgyzstan. I would like to express gratitude to the Kyrgyz representatives and to the President. I want to point out one more thing – a considerate attitude towards the Russian language. Russian is an official language in Kyrgyzstan, which creates special conditions for cooperation and, incidentally, has serious implications for both the humanitarian area and the economy. I would like to thank you for this and wish success to all of you. Thank you very much. See also All news about state visit to Kyrgyzstan March 28, 2019
Your Holiness, primates and representatives of local Orthodox churches, priests, ladies and gentlemen, I am glad to welcome all of you in the heart of Russia, in the Moscow Kremlin, with its holy shrines that mean a lot to every Orthodox believer. Today’s gathering is dedicated to a special date. At the end of January 2009, the Local Council of the Russian Orthodox Church met to elect a new primate – Patriarch Kirill of Moscow and All Russia. I would like to warmly and sincerely congratulate His Holiness on the 10 th anniversary of his enthronement. In December 2017, we came together to celebrate the centenary of the restoration of the patriarchate in our country and recognised the decisive role played by the primates of the Russian Orthodox Church in many respects in the destiny of the Fatherland, the greatness of their devotion and service to our people. Like his outstanding predecessors, Patriarch Kirill carries out his archpastoral mission with honour. Abiding by the Christian commandments, he seeks to help people find their way to the church, to bolster their faith, and to support them in word and deed. His wisdom and honesty, his openness and generosity have earned him respect and trust both in Russia and far beyond its borders. His Holiness and Orthodox hierarchs, together with representatives of other traditional religions, are making a significant contribution to strengthening social harmony, helping resolve profoundly important, sometimes very sensitive issues that people are concerned and worry about. I know how much has been done in recent years to expand the Church’s social services; the enormous, tireless work in this area the churches are doing, bringing in volunteers, benefactors, and all those who seeks to selflessly help other people. This work is invaluable; it cannot be measured by statistics, but still, allow me to cite a few figures. In 2009, there was only one church shelter in Russia for women with children who ended up in difficult life situations. Last year their number grew to 58. More than 100 new humanitarian aid centres have opened. Nursing care and social rehabilitation services are developing. The Russian Orthodox Church is always found where people are experiencing difficulties; it is always with people who are in trouble. That was the case in the summer of 2010, when Russia was confronted with the elements, when fires raged across many regions of our country; that was the case in Krymsk and in cities and villages of the Far East affected by floods. Today, the Russian Orthodox Church coordinates and contributes to over 6,500 social projects, thereby significantly strengthening the efforts of the state and society in this area. I would like to offer special thanks to Patriarch Kirill and the Church for the spiritual guidance of the Russian army. Your sincere, heartfelt words help the soldiers and officers to defend their homeland with honour, instil in them confidence in their military prowess and moral righteousness. The educational activities of the ROC deserve great respect, as do the restoration of old churches and the building of new ones. Patriarch Kirill and I recently attended the ceremony to consecrate the foundation of one of them – a majestic cathedral commemorating the soldiers of the Great Patriotic War, named the Resurrection of Christ. The noble devotion of the Russian Orthodox Church extends over its entire canonical territory. And we are grateful to His Holiness for his constant attention to our compatriots and the support of foreign communities, for his tireless work to build trust between countries and peoples, to expand humanitarian contacts. I must emphasise that such honest, impeccable service that Patriarch Kirill demonstrates is an example of true love for the Fatherland and for our people, and the successes achieved in this field lay the foundation for the development of the Church for decades to come. Your Holiness, participants of this solemn gathering, Today, as for many centuries before, the high purpose of the Russian Orthodox Church remains exceptionally important. I emphasise that the state will continue to actively promote constructive partnership with the Church in all significant areas, primarily, bringing up younger generations, preserving cultural heritage and solving pressing social problems. Russia faces major challenges and ambitious goals and, without exaggeration, historic tasks in demography, social development and improvements in the quality of life, as well as efforts to achieve economic, scientific, and technological breakthroughs. But we are well aware that in order to reach new heights, it is important to preserve our identity, unity and solidarity, which rely on values that have been cherished at all times by Orthodoxy and other traditional religions of Russia, such as compassion, honesty and justice, caring for your neighbour and family, respect for parents and children and, of course, love for the Motherland. Neglecting these values can lead to the most destructive consequences, to the depersonalisation and degradation of the individual, and make people victims of the most vile and base manipulations. To reiterate, the common duty of cooperation and responsibility of the state, the Church, religious leaders, and society lies in preserving and strengthening our spiritual, moral and ethical foundation, passing it on to the young, to future generations, so as not to lose ourselves in an era of turbulent global change. Of course, we hope that the Russian Orthodox Church will remain an effective force for peace, promote friendship and neighbourliness, and support our compatriots and people belonging to Orthodox culture. Brotherly interchurch ties have historically united nations and served to promote equitable relations between Russia and many foreign countries. Unfortunately, we can see other examples as well where speculation, politicking and parasitism on matters of religious life have led to disunity among people and provoked anger and intolerance. Precisely such a project that is unrelated to faith and is false through and through, focusing on the struggle for power, is unfolding in Ukraine. Regrettably, the Patriarchate of Constantinople got dragged into it. In fact, we are witnessing flagrant interference in church life. Its initiators seem to have taken after the godless people of the previous century, who expelled believers from churches and attacked and persecuted the clergy. To reiterate, the state, the Russian authorities consider any interference in church affairs to be absolutely intolerable. We have and will always have respect for the independence of church life, all the more so in a neighbouring sovereign country. Nevertheless, we reserve the right to respond and do our best to protect human rights, including freedom of religion. In closing, I would like to once again congratulate Patriarch Kirill on the occasion of a significant date, ten years since his enthronement. I wish His Holiness vigour, longevity and every success in his archpastoral work. May your prayers keep the Russian Orthodox Church and our Fatherland. Thank you.
Mr President, friends, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you once again for this warm welcome and for the invitation to visit your country. I have said this at the news conference, but I would like to say again that Serbia and Russia are connected by centuries-long friendship and close spiritual ties. Serbia has always demonstrated, both in good times and in hard times, its strong will and independence, and it has always treasured its sovereignty. Today we have every opportunity not only to overcome our difficulties and trials, but also to do so with dignity, to attain the results we strive for and to gain the upper hand. Mr President, you have recently shown strong will not only in foreign affairs but also in your domestic policy and in economic matters. I believe that Serbia had a surplus budget for a second year running. It is a very good indicator of your success. I hope that Russian-Serbian cooperation will not only contribute to our relations but also to the development of our states. I would like to wish every success to you and to all your colleagues and prosperity to the Serbian people. I raise this toast to your health and the health of everyone here, as well as to the strengthening of Russian-Serbian friendship. Additional Official visit to Serbia January 17, 2019
First, let me extend my warm greetings to all the readers of the Politika daily, which is one of the oldest periodicals not only in Serbia, but also in the Balkans as a whole. I would also like to seize this opportunity to convey my best New Year and Christmas greetings to Serbia’s citizens. As you have rightly put it, good relations between Russia and Serbia are based on a true friendship between our peoples, which dates back many centuries, as well as on their spiritual and cultural kinship, shared history, including their heroic struggle against Nazism during World War II. We have carefully preserved and are seeking to develop the precious traditions of trust and cooperation in the new, 21 st century. This commitment to close cooperation in the political, economic and humanitarian spheres was reflected in the bilateral Declaration on Strategic Partnership signed in May 2013. Today, bilateral relations in all spheres are on the rise. We highly appreciate that the Serbian leadership remains firmly committed to maintaining neutrality. At the same time, over the years we have helped Serbia to enhance its defense capability by supplying arms and military equipment and providing maintenance and modernization support. We will continue to develop military and technical cooperation. To be honest, we were surprised by a rather passive response from the European Union to the decision by Kosovo's ”parliament“ to transform the Kosovo Security Forces into a full-fledged army. It is clear that the Serbians living in the province perceive this step as a direct threat to their security. More broadly, it involves serious risks of escalating the situation in the region. It is hardly in the EU's interest to turn a blind eye to such unilateral actions, which blatantly violate international law, especially if Brussels wants to continue acting as a mediator in the dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina. As we have stated on numerous occasions, the NATO expansion policy, in our view, is a vestige of the Cold War, a misguided, destructive military and political strategy. Today, the Alliance is trying to strengthen its presence in the Balkans. However, by doing so, it only draws new dividing lines on the European continent and blatantly violates the principle of indivisibility of security. At the end of the day, rather than contributing to stability, all of this undermines trust and increases tensions in Europe. Indeed, the United States is basically pursuing a course towards dismantling the system of international agreements on arms control that prevent it from bolstering its military capabilities, or trying to adhere to the agreements selectively, i.e. only insofar as they serve its interests. The declaration of the intention to withdraw from the INF Treaty has become just another step in a sequence of similar actions. It is obvious that such a course will have the gravest consequences. Naturally, we are not going to turn a blind eye to the deployment of American missiles, which present a direct threat to our security. We will have to take effective countermeasures. However, Russia, as a responsible and sensible country, has no interest in a new arms race. Despite the United States' declared intention to withdraw from the INF Treaty, we are open to further dialogue on ways of preserving the Treaty. In December, we submitted to the American side a number of concrete proposals concerning the issue. We are also ready to hold a serious discussion on the entire ”strategic“ agenda between our countries. Russia has firmly and consistently championed the improvement of the overall international situation, which, as you have fairly pointed out, remains tense, and, I would also add, unpredictable. In fact, it was to a large extent the continued unilateral actions, including military ones, undertaken by the United States and a number of other Western States that have led to the current situation. The result is that the overall atmosphere of confrontation and mistrust is becoming even worse. We call on our Western colleagues to refrain from the practice of blackmail, threats and provocations, to respect international law, and to build interstate dialogue based on the principles enshrined in the UN Charter. That is the key to preserving peace and strengthening global and regional security and stability. In conclusion, I would like to wish the readers of Politika and the people of Serbia prosperity and success. * * * The Več I am happy to have the opportunity to address the readers of Večernje novosti – one of the most popular and influential Serbian newspapers – to answer your questions and share my views. As for the situation in the Balkans, a serious destabilizing factor there is the policy of the US and some other Western countries aimed at securing their dominance in the region. As early as in 1999 NATO forces – without any UN authorisation –bombed Yugoslavia for two and a half months and forcedly detached the Autonomous Province of Kosovo. And in 2008, Washington and its allies supported the illegitimate declaration of Kosovo's independence. In 2017, despite the stance of half of its population, Montenegro was absorbed into NATO. The authorities did not risk holding any relevant referendum – as a result, the country is suffering political instability. To ensure an accelerated accession of the Republic of Macedonia to NATO even the process of constitutional amendment and State renaming was launched last year along with the revision of the foundations of Macedonian national identity. However, the will of the Macedonian voters was ignored – the referendum on changing the State's name failed but the pressure from outside persists. Our country, knowing and understanding all the complexity of the Balkans and the region's history, has always regarded it as space for constructive cooperation. Today, Russia has many friends here, among whom our strategic partner Serbia occupies a special place. Thus, our unconditional priority is to contribute to enhancing regional security and stability. We support respect for the rights and interests of the Balkan countries and peoples as well as for international law. Cooperation with the Republika Srpska entity of Bosnia and Herzegovina is mutually beneficial in strict compliance with the 1995 Dayton Peace Agreement. We intend to further implement our projects in both the Republika Srpska and the entire territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina in such areas as energy, oil refining, trade in fuel, banking, pharmaceuticals, etc. We deem promotion of joint humanitarian initiatives equally important, taking into account the growing interest of Bosnians in the Russian language and culture and in receiving education in Russia. Our relations with Slovenia and Croatia are developing steadily despite the fact that our dialogue with the European Union whose members they are is facing challenges. There were a number of meetings with the Croatian leadership in the previous year. I would like to remind your readers, who are greatly concerned about the information regarding the split in the Orthodox community but are probably not fully aware of the situation in Ukraine, what it is all about. On December 15, 2018, the Ukrainian leaders, actively supported by the USA and the Constantinople Patriarchate, held a so-called ”unifying synod“. This synod declared the creation of the Orthodox Church of Ukraine, with Patriarch Bartholomew signing the tomos granting it autocephaly on January 6, 2019. Thus, it was attempted to legalize the schismatic communities that exist in Ukraine under the jurisdiction of Istanbul, which is a major violation of Orthodox canons. Yet, hardly anyone in the US or in the Ukrainian leadership worries about this, as the new church entity is an entirely political, secular project. Its main aim is to divide the peoples of Russia and Ukraine, sowing seeds of ethnic as well as religious discord. No wonder Kiev has already declared ”obtaining complete independence from Moscow“. Once again, this has nothing to do with spiritual life; we are dealing here with dangerous and irresponsible politicking. Likewise, we do not speak about the independence of the Orthodox Church of Ukraine . It is de-facto fully controlled by Istanbul. Whereas Ukraine's largest canonical Ukrainian Orthodox Church, which has never requested autocephaly from Patriarch Bartholomew, is absolutely independent in its actions. Its connection with the Russian Orthodox Church is purely canonical – but even this causes undisguised irritation of the current Kiev regime. Because of this, clergymen and laymen of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church are being persecuted and deprived of churches and monasteries, and attempts are made to deny the Church its legitimate name, which raises tensions and only leads to further discord in Ukrainian society. Evidently, Ukraine's leaders have to understand that any attempts to force the faithful into a different church are fraught with grave consequences. Yet, they are eager to put interconfessional concord in the country at stake in order to conduct the election campaign of the current Ukrainian President based on a search for enemies, and to retain power by all means. All of this does not go unnoticed by Orthodox Christians. Naturally, Russia does not intend to interfere in ecclesiastical processes, especially those happening on the territory of a neighboring sovereign state. However, we are aware of the danger posed by such experiments and blatant interference of the state in religious affairs. We respect the Serbian leadership's decision to join the EU. Unlike our Western partners, we do not try to pose an artificial dilemma for Belgrade and make Serbia choose whether to be with Russia or with the European Union. In today's global world, integration processes are developing dynamically, involving new countries and alliances and shaping new promising structures. We are convinced, therefore, that neither Serbia's striving for integration into Europe, nor Russia's participation in the Eurasian Economic Union prevents our two countries from strengthening their multi-faceted cooperation. What is important is that Russia and Serbia remain committed to further increasing their economic and investment collaboration. The free trade agreement between the Eurasian Economic Union and Serbia that is being prepared is also designed to promote such cooperation. Another round of relevant negotiations took place in Belgrade recently, on January 10–11. We expect that this instrument will be signed before the year ends and will open up qualitatively new opportunities for improving the efficiency of our joint efforts in the economic area and their practical effect. I would like to conclude by wishing all the readers of Večernje novosti and all the citizens of friendly Serbia peace and prosperity.
Mr President, my dear friend. Ladies and gentlemen, To begin with, I would like to thank Mr Erdogan for inviting us to attend the ceremony marking the completion of TurkStream gas pipeline’s offshore section. Before getting down to business – I may have to repeat some things or provide some more detailed information, which will be a pleasure for me – I would like to say that the trade turnover Mr President has just mentioned, $100 billion, will be actually Russia’s bilateral trade with China this year. But then, why should Russia’s trade with Turkey be smaller? I have no doubt that we can and will attain the same target in our relations with Turkey. Now to the project at hand. We are taking part in a truly signal event that testifies to the effectiveness of our countries’ partner-like cooperation in accomplishing the most difficult and ambitious projects. I would like to remind you that the agreement on building TurkStream was signed here, in Istanbul, on October 10, 2016. I think you know – I certainly do – who suggested naming the project TurkStream. Today, barely two years after the start of this large-scale venture, we have completed its most difficult part. It was really a very serious and challenging job – to build the deep-water part of the new gas pipeline. Friends, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to note that extracting and transporting gas is no easy job as someone may think; it is not simply drilling a hole in the ground and then pumping. This is difficult work involving high technology, both for extraction and transport. Let me remind you that this is the most environment-friendly and the most popular type of primary energy in the world today. It has already been said here, but I should correct my colleague that 1,800 kilometres of pipelines have been laid on the bottom of the Black Sea at a depth of 2,000 metres and more. The first of the two pipelines will pump Russian gas to western Turkey and the second will pump it to the countries of Southern and Southeastern Europe by transit. Of course, this transforms Turkey into a serious European hub, which, without a doubt, will reflect on Turkey’s role in the geopolitics. The next stage is laying the ground part of TurkStream. We believe that this work will also be carried out at an accelerated pace so that we will be able to launch the pipeline by the end of 2019, as planned. I want to stress that the cutting-edge technological solutions and the most advanced equipment are used in the construction; the strictest environmental standards and norms are observed. With President of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdogan at the ceremony marking the completion of TurkStream gas pipeline’s offshore section. Let me point out that Russia and Turkey have been successfully developing cooperation in energy for a long time, as Mr President said. In this context, let me also say that 13 years ago Mr Erdogan and I launched the first trans-Black Sea gas pipeline, Blue Stream, which directly connected Russia and eastern Turkey. Today more than half of all the Russian gas purchased for the Turkish markets goes through it. The long and stable exploitation of this pipeline, including during the difficult winter months, has proven that Russia is a reliable supplier of natural gas and has provided the Turkish economy with an environment-friendly and efficient type of fuel. It goes without saying that the launching of Turk-Stream will allow our countries to drastically expand cooperation in the gas sector, will have great significance for Turkey’s economic development, and will also become an important factor in maintaining common European energy security. I would like to use this opportunity and to thank the participants in this complicated project, including the experts and workers and those who have financed it. I would like to thank President of the Republic of Turkey Mr Erdogan for displaying political will and courage. Why? Because it is impossible to implement projects like this in conditions of growing competition without these traits. The trust, mentioned by my Turkish colleague five minutes ago, hinges on this. And again, projects like this cannot be carried out without such trust. But I would also like to thank many of our Turkish colleagues, including the former Minister of Economics who helped launch this project, and everyone who promptly authorised the issuance of the necessary permits and licenses. I would like to thank the members of parliament of the Turkish Republic for their support. All this has allowed the builders to meet the deadlines and to even work faster than planned. I am confident that Turk-Stream, just like our other joint strategic project, Turkey’s first Akkuyu Nuclear Power Plant, will become an outstanding symbol of the progressive development of the Russian-Turkish diverse partnership and a pledge of friendship between our nations. I wish successes to all of you and all of us in the future. Thank you. Ceremony marking the completion of TurkStream gas pipeline’s offshore section.  President of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdogan : Congratulations! Godspeed! Mr President, friends, Such projects, including this project, are not directed against anyone’s interests. These projects are solely constructive. They aim to expand relations between states, to create stable conditions for economic development and to improve the well-being of our countries’ citizens in this way. The implementation of this kind of projects, including this one, is an outstanding and positive example of the ability to defend one’s national interests because Turk-Stream completely meets the national economic interests of the Republic of Turkey. I congratulate you on completing the most important stage of its implementation. Thank you, Mr President. Geography Tü
Mr Chairman, Colleagues, First of all, I would like to thank the Prime Minister of the Republic of Singapore, Mr Lee Hsien Loong, for the initiative to host the Russia-ASEAN summit. Russia pays great attention to the development of relations with ASEAN based on mutual respect and consideration for each other’s interests. At the May 2016 Sochi summit, which Mr Prime Minister just mentioned, we adopted a declaration and an action plan aimed at taking cooperation between Russia and ASEAN to the strategic partnership level. Over the past two years, we have accomplished a lot together. Political dialogue intensified; Russia’s permanent mission to ASEAN was established in Jakarta last year. We coordinate our approaches to key issues on the Asia-Pacific agenda, to the challenges and threats to regional stability, and enhance joint efforts to fight terrorism, drug trafficking and organised crime. Our foreign ministers hold annual meetings. The Russian Defence Minister takes part in the ASEAN Defence Ministers’ meetings, and the Interior Minister attends the ASEAN Association of Chiefs of Police conferences. Contacts have also been established between Russian lawmakers and the ASEAN Inter-Parliamentary Assembly. Economic relations are evolving steadily. In 2017, Russia's trade with ASEAN increased by 35 percent. Mutual accumulated investment exceeds $25 billion. Our joint business cooperation roadmap containing about 60 joint projects in industry and high technology is being successfully implemented. There are cooperation programmes in energy and agriculture. The Russia-ASEAN Business Council is active too. It would be useful to continue the work of the Russian delegation to the ASEAN Business and Investment Summit, which ended in Singapore yesterday. In turn, business leaders from ASEAN countries are always widely represented at the St Petersburg and Eastern Economic forums in Russia. Taking this opportunity, I would like to invite ASEAN officials and business representatives to visit Russia to attend the next meetings of these forums in 2019. We consider it important to establish regular dialogue between ASEAN and the Eurasian Economic Union. The signing of a memorandum of understanding between the Association and the Eurasian Economic Commission is a step in this direction. We are grateful to our ASEAN partners for supporting the Russian initiative to pass a joint statement on information security aiming to more effectively combat cybercrime and to chart common approaches regarding the behaviour of states in the global information space. Russia will join ASEAN plans to establish a chain of smart cities. Moscow, the Russian capital, leads the way in introducing urban digital technology. Moscow already proactively cooperates with Singapore on a bilateral basis. We hope that the region of this cooperation will expand on a reciprocal basis. It goes without saying that close coordination in emergency response to natural disasters and industrial accidents is in high demand. We have finished working on a cooperation memorandum for preventing emergency situations and conducting clean-up operations. We hope that it will be possible to sign this document soon. We are ready to continue helping ASEAN states in their efforts to check the spread of infectious diseases. We suggest tapping the potential of various programmes to raise the qualification of medical personnel at a biological safety and security centre that has opened in Vladivostok earlier this year. We could also consider holding joint exercises and practicing rapid response measures to combat dangerous infectious diseases. In addition, I would like to note the sustained development of cultural and humanitarian ties between Russia and the ASEAN states. Two weeks ago, Myanmar hosted the first meeting of the working group on education. We are implementing an action plan in the area of science, technology and innovation until 2025. A network of research centres of leading Russian and ASEAN universities has been operating since April. It would be useful to organise educational and university forums on a regular basis. Russia successfully hosted such events in 2016 and 2017. The holding of Russia-ASEAN youth summits helps strengthen ties between young people of our countries. The Republic of the Philippines is to host the next summit in 2019. Colleagues, I have only set out the most important aspects of Russia-ASEAN cooperation, as well as key agreements and documents that were drafted ahead of the summit. I am confident that wide-ranging opportunities and horizons are opening up for our expanded cooperation. I am counting on an open and interested exchange of opinions. Thank you.  Geography Singapore Topics Foreign policy Russia–
Madam President Halimah Yacob, Ladies and Gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank you for the invitation to visit the Republic of Singapore and the hospitality extended to us. As has already been said, it is symbolic that this year we celebrated the 50th anniversary of diplomatic relations. During this period, our interaction developed steadily and filled with new content. Singapore is an important and promising partner of Russia in the Asia-Pacific Region. Madam President and I have had productive, comprehensive and interesting talks; we discussed almost all of our bilateral agenda in a friendly and open atmosphere. As far as I know, they often say in Singapore that among friends, even water runs sweet as honey. Mutual trust is the foundation of progress, friendship and development. The relations that have developed between us are truly based on mutual respect and trust. This was confirmed by the groundbreaking ceremony for the first Russian cultural centre and Orthodox church here in Singapore today. I am confident that this gesture and the subsequent construction of the centre will serve as a solid foundation for the development of bilateral relations, especially for the people who will come here, to Singapore, more and more often, will get acquainted with your country and will have the opportunity to visit the Russian Orthodox Church and our cultural centre. The people in Singapore, in turn, will be exposed to the culture of the Russian Federation. Allow me to make a toast to the well-being and prosperity of Russia and Singapore! To our friendship and Madam President’s health!
Good afternoon. I have not so far; we only greeted each other. The ceremony is taking place in such a way that we have no opportunity to communicate, we were just observing events. But we will have a working dinner now, we may have an opportunity then. In any case, we agreed that we will not deviate from the schedule of the host side. At their request, we are not to organise any meetings here, but perhaps on the sidelines of the G20 summit. Anyway, we are ready for dialogue. We are not the ones withdrawing from the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty. This is what the Americans are planning to do. Both we and they are committed to restoring dialogue. But it is more important to hold a dialogue not even at such high or a higher level, but at the level of experts. I hope that this comprehensive negotiating process will be resumed. As for an alternative all-European military force, this idea is not a new one. President Macron simply brought it back to life, but it was one of the former presidents, Jacques Chirac, who had talked to me about it before. These ideas preceded him as well. Europe is, essentially, a powerful economic entity, a powerful economic union. And in general, it is rather natural for Europe to want to be independent, self-sufficient, sovereign in terms of its defence and security. I think that this process is, in general, positive, from the standpoint of strengthening the multipolarity of the world. In this sense, our position overlaps with the French one, too. As for exercises, we too conduct them; to be fair, we are trying not to conduct any large-scale exercises close to the borders of NATO member states. The most recent large-scale exercises we had were held in the East, thousands of kilometres away from the borders of NATO member states. But in general, we are reacting to this calmly. I hope that dialogue, which is always in demand, will also have a positive impact on this situation. What is important here is not Russia-France relations in information exchange, but rather our overall approaches to information and its exchange and its free distribution – these are the things that are important. We are aware of and have always heard our western colleagues say that the main principle of democracy is freedom of information. But creating various sorts of lists and councils that should decide on which media are good and which are bad – this, I believe, is totally unacceptable and has nothing to do with democracy. Because, if we want to implement the principle of free information and its access to users, that is, to citizens of our countries, we should not make administrative efforts to ban anything or restrict anything using political and administrative structures. If you disagree with anything, you can counter it by offering your own point of view and give the viewers, listeners and internet users the opportunity to figure it out and make a decision on their own on whether this is true or it is distorted. I think this is the direction to take. You know, I wanted to and I will pay you a visit, but today there are 90 heads of state and government in Paris, making it rather difficult to move about the city. In order not to make additional problems for the receiving side, I will have to miss out on this one. But I will take pleasure in visiting you next time. I would like to wish you success and thank you for your work and professionalism. Good-bye! See also Visit to France November 11, 2018
Friends, ladies and gentlemen, I congratulate you on National Unity Day. This holiday has primarily historical, ethical and spiritual meaning. It marks loyalty to the Fatherland and our willingness to defend it and work for its prosperity. For Russia, high principles of patriotism have a special value. They are the basis of the invincible spirit of our people, which has surprised and amazed the world many times. The sense of patriotism is a major part of the national culture and the core of our inherited memory. These traditions have always inspired us to make noble actions and genuine breakthroughs, and create original masterpieces. The exhibition Treasures of Russian Museums once again proves this. I am confident that many present here will attend this exhibition, which is being held as part of the Orthodox Russia series. Once again, I should note the special meaning and relevance of this project, which reflects the unity of the vast cultural space of our millennium-old country. The exhibition was created with the active involvement of regional museums and art galleries. Its scope and exhibits are truly memorable and impressive, and makes one aware of how rich our country is in talent and how much can be accomplished by Russia's amazing sons and daughters, who are often modest but brilliant, and wonderfully and infinitely gifted. Friends, our history has had many periods when Russia's future and its survival were the main thing for everyone, and the country's fate was invariably determined by the nation's courage, unity and will. Today's holiday marks the events that took place over four hundred years ago. Yet, the splendour of the deeds, to which the love for the Fatherland inspired people of various ethnicities and social classes and which united them, never fades away. Those events put an end to disturbances, discords and betrayals, drove invaders from Moscow, restored stable power, and prevented invaders from destroying and weakening the Russian nation and its unity. The lives of our great ancestors serve as an example, reminding us to take care of Russia, preserve its sovereignty, and cherish peace and accord in its big and multi-ethnic family. Traditionally, today we honour our compatriots who work in this field successfully and indefatigably. This year, the prize for contributing to the enhancement of the unity of the Russian nation is presented to Lyudmila Verbitskaya. An outstanding linguist, she has done much to develop Russian as a state-constituting language, the language of our culture and interethnic communication. I should particularly note Ms Verbitskaya's educational activities to advocate the Russian language's positions abroad. This is important for promoting traditional values that were cherished by our ancestors and that remain our moral and spiritual basis. Sadly, Mr Verbitskaya cannot be present here due to health issues, but I am sure I will be able to present the prize to her soon. I wish her all the best and a speedy recovery. Friends, traditionally, our compatriots have been invited at the reception to mark National Unity Day. Present here are many our friends from other countries. I would like to express my deepest appreciation for your sincere engagement in Russia's life, your respect for the Russian culture and interest for our rich history and contemporary life, as well as for the support and development of educational, business and scientific links, and, of course, for a friendly and open attitude to our country, which helps strengthen understanding between people. Such a mission is very important today, and we greatly appreciate your actions and commitment to advocate peace and justice. Once again, I congratulate all citizens of Russia on National Unity Day. Thank you for attention.  Friends, Let me once again congratulate you on the holiday. I would like to address our laureates with the words of appreciation for their work. They have just reported to us on what they do, how they do it, their attitude toward Russia, its culture, traditions and history. This definitely evokes an image of what we should aspire to. This is the image of cooperation, friendship and interaction. If we base our actions on the things that unite us and not on current contradictions, we will definitely act as Catherine the Great did; not only will we abolish reciprocal customs duties but will also actively move forward for the benefit of our two nations. My congratulations. Wishing you all the best. See also Laying flowers at the monument to Kuzma Minin and Dmitry Pozharsky November 4, 2018 Attending exhibition Treasures of Russian Museums November 4, 2018
Mr President, friends, colleagues, I am pleased to welcome the participants of the first Russia-Uzbekistan forum of interregional relations and cooperation. This is a useful and promising area of interaction. Ramified relations at the regional level are the most important component of bilateral contacts. Therefore, we were pleased to support the President’s initiative to hold such a forum in Tashkent during this visit. Russia maintains such interregional interaction with our partners from a number of states, primarily the CIS countries, and, indeed, it has a good track record. This is a working and dynamic format. We expect this Russia-Uzbekistan Interregional Cooperation Forum to become an annual event and to make a sizable contribution to promoting cooperation between the regions of Russia and Uzbekistan. I am referring primarily to trade and economy, but not only. Interregional cooperation can be used to develop any kind of relations, including, of course, those in the humanitarian sphere. Notably, our bilateral economic relations are quite successful. As was said many times today, our trade increased by 34 percent in 2017, and grew by another 30 percent in January-August. We see that contacts between the Russian regions and the regions of Uzbekistan are gaining momentum and becoming more diverse. Over 20 reciprocal visits by regional leaders have already taken place this year. From Russia, particularly active were the cities of Moscow, St Petersburg, Orenburg Region and Chelyabinsk Region. We are aware that, at the suggestion of the President of Uzbekistan, our Uzbek colleagues from that country’s regions have stepped up their activities as well. This is impressive and quite promising. As mentioned earlier, about 1,000 Russian participants from 30 Russian regions are taking part in this forum, including 10 governors and over 850 businesspeople. This is indicative of our serious commitment to working with our Uzbek partners. As we know from earlier remarks by the ministers and governors, forum participants discussed matters of economic and social development, infrastructure upgrades and the introduction of digital technology that are really important for the regions of the two countries. Most importantly, we joined efforts and looked for opportunities to enhance mutually beneficial cooperation in these and other promising areas. Since our cooperation in the agricultural sector has been expanding at a strong rate recently, it is quite understandable that this subject was reviewed at a plenary session. I will also spend a moment discussing this area in more detail. Russian-Uzbek trade in agricultural produce grew by almost 40 percent to $340 million in just the first eight months of this year. I have no doubt that the numbers will continue to grow, also because Russia has created the most favourable terms and conditions for importing Uzbek agricultural products, introduced a green corridor customs system and approved a special phytosanitary control procedure. Reduced railway tariffs have been introduced as well. We discussed these issues during the President of Uzbekistan’s state visit to Moscow last year. As you can see, all these agreements have been implemented. Of course, we will continue to streamline mutual trade and related logistics. In particular, it is imperative that we encourage backhaul freight to Uzbekistan with, of course, Russian-made products, including foods. We can do this since agricultural output in Russia has increased by more than 20 percent over the past five years. We believe this undoubtedly represents a breakthrough in developing agriculture in our country. We can state that a real breakthrough has been made in this area. Last year, we had a record grain harvest, 135 million tonnes. This year, we will harvest a little less, but still a lot at over 100 million tonnes. I was recently in Stavropol Region and asked the manager of a company about their performance. He told me about it. I asked him how they acknowledged such results in the Soviet Union. They awarded the title of Hero of Socialist Labour right away. While today this may not be something routine, but we are now accustomed to it. Russia is the world’s number one supplier of wheat and second in terms of grain crop distribution in general, and it is now significantly increasing exports of meat. Prospects are good in other areas as well, including advanced conversion products. In this context, we hope that the agricultural exhibition held as part of the forum will make it possible to establish good business contacts and start promising new joint projects. Russia is ready to fully meet the needs of Uzbek farmers in high-quality agricultural equipment, and to help them upgrade the food and processing industry. Incidentally, Rostselmash, which is our largest company in the agricultural engineering sector, is starting a project to produce forage harvesters in Uzbekistan. Other Russian manufacturers have similar plans. We will continue to provide assistance in training employees for Uzbek agriculture. About 800 Uzbek students are studying at Russian agricultural colleges. A branch of the Aquaculture department of Astrakhan University will open in Tashkent in the next academic year. Colleagues, friends, Agriculture is important, but by far not the only area of cooperation. Opportunities for Russia-Uzbekistan cooperation are vast and promising, which was confirmed by today’s talks. I am confident that our respective regions will be even more actively involved in promoting bilateral partnerships. The President of Uzbekistan and I will give our absolute support for your constructive initiatives and the joint projects you plan. Like the President of Uzbekistan, I wish you all the best and every success in your work. Thank you. Additional All news about state visit to Uzbekistan October 19, 2018
Mr President, colleagues. I am happy to greet all the participants. Leaders of many Belarusian and Russian regions, as well as parliament members, businesspeople and prominent public figures are present here today in this hall. They are those who facilitate the strengthening of multilateral allied interaction between our countries. I would like to emphasise the contribution made by the forum co-
Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, It is a pleasure to welcome you to the Kremlin, at the ceremony to present letters of credence. You have the honourable and important mission of promoting relations between your states and Russia, encouraging political dialogue and expanding economic and humanitarian ties. Today we need diplomacy to play an active and constructive role, to use the power of words, negotiations and compromise to make a tangible contribution to overcoming the current difficulties in international affairs and searching for responses to new challenges and threats. Russia is dedicated to a peaceful policy and progressively carries out a responsible course in foreign policy. As a permanent member of the Security Council,
Mr Modi, friends, I am happy to welcome the leading entrepreneurs of Russia and India. More than 100 heads of major companies from our countries are present in this room. This emphasises the seriousness of the business community’s intention to build up Russian-Indian cooperation in trade and investment. We listened with great interest to reports about the discussions that were held during the forum. Some practical issues of business interaction were discussed,
"Mr Federal Chancellor, friends,
I am happy to greet you at the State
Hermitage Museum for the opening of the exhibition
Imperial Capitals: St Petersburg – Vienna. Masterpieces of Museum
Collections
.
Several months ago we already
presented it in Vienna together with the Chancellor of Austria. It sparked the lively interest of both connoisseurs and art experts and all art lovers. Now
the exhibition has arrived here, in Russia, in St Petersburg.
Visiting the State Hermitage. With Federal Chancellor of Austria Sebastian Kurz and director of the State Hermitage Mikhail Piotrovsky (right).
This outstanding and original
project is an eloquent expression of the strong historical and cultural bonds
between the two countries, and especially between the beautiful cities of St Petersburg and Vienna. As capitals of great empires and Europe’s
architectural pearls, they represent a rich mixture of styles, cultures and traditions. The exhibition opens with the grand portraits of Empress Catherine
the Great and Maria Theresia, the great women of the 18
th
century,
who laid the foundation for the Hermitage and the Vienna Museum collections.
St Petersburg residents and visitors
will have a chance to see works by prominent artists, including geniuses like
Botticelli, Rembrandt and van Dyck. I strongly believe that works by masters of the Northern Renaissance who are not represented in the collection of the Hermitage
Museum will be of special interest to museum goers.
Let me point out that Russian and Austrian experts have a long track record when it comes to joint projects and assisting each other in holding cultural events. It has become a good tradition
for us to hold cross years devoted to specific topics. Not that long ago we held
a Year of Tourism. It was a very meaningful and effective initiative. The Year
of Music is underway, and 2019 will be dedicated to youth exchanges.
Let me emphasise that cultural and humanitarian ties and the rich experience we have accumulated in this field provide
a solid foundation for our bilateral relations. Russia values the level of cooperation that has been achieved between our countries. It goes without
saying that initiatives like this exhibition contribute to further expanding
our cooperation in significant ways, enrich our bilateral dialogue, as well as facilitate people-to-people contacts, which is especially important.
Visiting the State Hermitage. With Federal Chancellor of Austria Sebastian Kurz.
I am confident that this exhibition
will arouse as much interest in Russia as it did in Austria, and will
strengthen friendship and mutual understanding between the peoples of our
countries.
In conclusion, I would like to thank
all who took part in preparing this remarkable project (our guest, His
Excellency Federal Chancellor, has just seen the notice in the hall nearby),
especially Russia’s Gazprom and Austria’s OMV, and congratulate them on 50
years of cooperation between Russia and Austria in the gas sector. I hope that
this exhibition becomes a memorable and inspiring experience for all its
visitors.
Thank you for your attention. Thank you very much."
Mr President, friends, ladies and gentlemen. Like the President of Azerbaijan, I am delighted that today we have an opportunity to say a few words in front of such a representative audience. The 9 th interregional forum shows that in the previous years we did not waste our time and were busy working in all areas, which is bringing results. Allow me to repeat and remind you about a few things. In any case, in this hall we have representatives of science, the creative community, business, politics – and this help us to generally get good results. At the 9th Russia-Azerbaijan Interregional Forum. I would like to point out that interregional links are the most important component of relations between our countries. Seventy Russian regions work closely with the regions of Azerbaijan. The leaders here are Moscow, Moscow Region, St Petersburg, as well as Stavropol and Krasnodar territories, and Astrakhan, Nizhny Novgorod, Chelyabinsk, Volgograd, Saratov and Sverdlovsk regions. Overall, speaking about ties between Russia and Azerbaijan, I would like to stress that the relations between our states are, without question, built on the principles of good neighbourliness and mutual respect. We are always trying to look for a balance of interests and we succeed. During the recent talks in Sochi, which President Aliyev has just mentioned, we signed a range of documents and agreements that create an additional regulatory basis for further developing our inter-state links. Let me note that there are now around 700 joint companies with Russian participation on the Azerbaijani market and the total amount of Russia’s direct investment in Azerbaijan exceeds $1.5 billion. The Russia-Azerbaijan Business Council is a great help when it comes to establishing mutually beneficial business contacts. Last year alone, it supported 42 joint projects worth around half a billion US dollars in total. Russian energy corporations are working successfully in Azerbaijan, as has already been mentioned. In conjunction with the state corporation of Azerbaijan, Rosneft will soon start exploring and developing the Goshadash oil and gas field. LUKOIL has invested about $4 billion in energy projects in Azerbaijan, which was also mentioned here, and Transneft, our leading oil transport monopoly, ensures reliable export transit of the Azerbaijani oil via the Baku-Novorossiysk oil pipeline. We see good opportunities for deepening cooperation in the automotive industry, which was also mentioned today. KamAZ has become operational, and now engages in technical assembly and vehicle maintenance. AvtoVAZ has created a wide retail network to sell Lada cars in all regions of Azerbaijan with over 40 branches now open in this country. In turn, investors from Azerbaijan participate in building agricultural enterprises in Russia, such as a hothouse complex in Nizhny Novgorod region and a joint venture to produce food in Krasnodar Territory. In 2017, the supply of Azerbaijani agricultural produce to Russia increased significantly by almost 12 percent. The total volume hit a whopping half a billion dollars. Our partners are showing an increased interest in this area of business, which can be seen from more than 30 Azerbaijani companies participating in the international food exhibition in Moscow on September 17−20. Russia and Azerbaijan are carrying out joint infrastructure projects. In particular, an international North-South transport corridor is being created to bring together the European and Asian markets. The construction companies of our countries are building a new bridge on the Samur River with a throughput capacity of over 37,000 vehicles per day as part of this genuinely large-scale effort and initiative. At the 9th Russia-Azerbaijan Interregional Forum. The Convention on the Status of the Caspian Sea has opened new opportunities for mutually beneficial cooperation between our states. This, of course, is nothing short of a breakthrough. Of course, much has still to be done to ensure that everything works properly and to achieve full-scale implementation, but the signing of the document has created a good basis for cooperation in the Caspian region. We hope that Russian and Azerbaijani companies will actively carry out promising projects in the Caspian Sea area, primarily, on transport, freight traffic, oil and gas production, environmental protection and, certainly, the preservation of bioresources and biodiversity of the Caspian Sea. We are intensively developing bilateral contacts in tourism. A health resort centre has been built in Yessentuki owing to Azerbaijani entrepreneurs, and a hotel complex is under construction in Zheleznovodsk. We are also planning to jointly develop sea cruises in the Caspian Sea. Of course, Russia and Azerbaijan are paying special attention to the expansion of humanitarian cooperation. The President of Azerbaijan has just mentioned this as well. There are two branches of our largest universities – Moscow State University and Sechenov Medical University – in Baku. The number of scientific and student exchanges is growing. Rostov University of Railways and Astrakhan University are elaborating joint programmes with their Azerbaijani partners on the education of top professionals, primarily in economic specialties. Naturally, we intend to continue promoting bilateral contacts in education, culture and science. I would like to emphasise one point which I talked about with the President in Sochi and we see and appreciate this – the interest in the Russian language. And I am referring not just to the interest of Azerbaijanis in the Russian language but also to help from the state, municipalities and cities. We see all of this. The 300-odd schools mentioned by the President certainly form a base. But the main base is in the hearts and minds of people, their obvious striving for cooperation, to maintain and develop contacts. At the 9th Russia-Azerbaijan Interregional Forum. Friends and colleagues, I spoke about just some areas of our bilateral cooperation in which Russian and Azerbaijani regions are taking part. Opportunities for cooperation are really very broad. Importantly, specific areas of our cooperation at the regional level are primarily determined by you, those who have gathered in this hall, and your colleagues at the local level. I certainly want to wish you every success in this work. Thank you. See also All news about the visit to Azerbaijan September 27, 2018
Good afternoon, friends. I am delighted to welcome all of you to Russia, to St Petersburg, my hometown, and to the Second Eurasian Women’s Forum. The geography of this forum reaches far beyond our continent. I was just informed by Ms Matviyenko that you represent more than 110 countries, as well as the leading international organisations. Russia contributes in significant ways to discussions on strategies designed to enhance the role of women in tackling global challenges. This is not without reason, since Russia has always paid special attention to protecting mothers and children, as well as supporting women. I would go as far as to argue that we treat women in a special way, with tenderness, cordiality and sincerity. With participants of the plenary session of the Second Eurasian Women’s Forum. Friends, History provides us with quite a few extraordinary examples when women assumed responsibility for decisions that were pivotal for entire countries and nations. In today’s complex, rapidly changing world women are proactive and successful in many spheres, and play an increasingly important role in strengthening peace and security, which is their natural role, and contribute to addressing key socioeconomic and humanitarian problems. Women are active in the United Nations and head leading international organisations, executive and legislative authorities in their countries. Many women are talented scientists, entrepreneurs, politicians and public figures. I can also see outstanding athletes in this room. The world, the countries will only benefit if such women's success stories become as frequent as possible. We will be able to consolidate the national potential, ensure sustainable global development – for the entire civilisation. It is in our common interest to deal with gender inequality, to eradicate many stereotypes and career restrictions that still exist, unfortunately, and, importantly, to pave the way to the necessary education for girls, to create comfortable conditions for working and running their own business. Women must feel emancipated and independent, and have effective guarantees of social and legal protection. On the other hand,
Comrades soldiers, sergeants, warrant officers, Comrades officers and generals, Representatives of the People’s Liberation Army of China and the Armed Forces of Mongolia, I am happy to welcome all of you and all the participants in the Vostok 2018 manoeuvres. This is the first time that our army and navy are challenged to undergo a complex and large-scale test of this kind. Personnel from two military districts and two fleets, the Northern Fleet and the Pacific Fleet, are taking part in the manoeuvres with a total of about 300,000 military personnel, tens of thousands of weapons and military vehicles. These manoeuvres are designed to test the combat readiness of our troops in a thorough and comprehensive manner and in all its key aspects, including command facilities, formations and units, as well as their interaction and coordination. The most active stage of these manoeuvres is about to be completed here, on Tsugol training range in Trans-Baikal Territory. You have performed it at a high level. All units and formations have fulfilled their objectives. You have demonstrated your military skill, and showed that you can effectively resist potential military threats. I would like to express special gratitude to the military personnel from the People’s Republic of China and Mongolia. We share a long-standing and solid tradition of brotherhood in arms. Russia will always honour the courage of the heroes of the battle of Khalkhyn Gol. We will never forget that during the Second World War our countries were allies and fought the aggressor together. Today we share an important task of ensuring stability and security across the Eurasian space. Comrades, Russia is a peace-loving nation. We do not have and cannot have any plans of aggression. Our foreign policy is designed to promote productive cooperation with all interested countries. It is for this reason that 87 observers from 59 countries are present at these exercises. I welcome all of them here. To the Russian military personnel, I would like to say that our duty toward Russia, our Motherland, is to be ready to stand up for its sovereignty, security and national interests, and support our allies, if required. For this reason, we are committed to further strengthening our Armed Forces and supplying them with the most up to date weapons and equipment, as well as promoting international cooperation. I strongly believe that you, Russian officers and soldiers, are well aware of your high responsibility to deliver on these international tasks, and that you will always remain faithful to your duty and oath, and enrich Russia’s military tradition. As the Supreme Commander-in-Chief, I would like to thank all the participants in the Vostok-2018 military manoeuvres for your good work, professionalism and skill. I wish you good health, high spirits and every success. Thank you for your service. Geography Trans-
Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, Today, a very important and landmark event has taken place – the signing of the Convention On the Legal Status of the Caspian Sea, an international agreement that contains a detailed and comprehensive set of rules and obligations on the use and preservation of our common treasure – the Caspian Sea. Thus, the multifaceted interaction of the 'Caspian five' states was given a present-day legal foundation that will serve us for years to come. It is crucially important to note that the Convention confers upon the five states exclusive and sovereign rights to use the Caspian Sea, to pursue its responsible development and to use its assets and other resources, while firmly securing the settlement of all pressing issues based on the principles of consensus and mutual consideration of each other’s interests, and bestowing upon the Caspian a peaceful status, and ensuring that armed forces of non-regional countries are not present in the Caspian region. We have been striving for many years to develop and approve this strategic and fundamental document. Substantial efforts have been made to hold negotiations with the participation of numerous government agencies of our countries and have involved experts from business communities. The success achieved – and this is undoubtedly a success – was made possible largely due to the high level of trust and mutual understanding that exists between the leaders of the Caspian states and our readiness to always follow the logic of respect, partnership and equality. I would like to express appreciation to all heads of state present today. Such a joint approach actually showed its efficiency and relevance. It showed that joint efforts can result in achieving ambitious goals in any, even the most complicated issues, in finding a compromise and balanced solutions of mutual interest. In today's difficult international conditions, this carries a lot of weight. The signing of the Convention opens a new stage in the relations of the Caspian states and allows us to secure prosperity and provide for dynamic development of our common region together. I note with satisfaction that today we have also signed a comprehensive package of agreements that expand and add to the Convention in the most important and pressing issues of interaction. The plans of the Caspian states include boosting economic cooperation, expanding trade and investment ties, cooperation in the energy sector, developing the region's transport and logistic potential, and boosting tourist flows. Particular attention will be paid to preserving the rich nature and biodiversity of the Caspian Sea. Of course, the Caspian countries attach great importance to the issues of security and counteracting today's challenges and threats. We have to take into account the fact that the Caspian Sea is located near hotbeds of tension and areas of international terrorist activity – I am referring to the Middle East and Afghanistan. That is why our countries are committed to strengthening comprehensive interaction of our special services and border agencies, and to promoting coordination in foreign policy. All the above-mentioned issues form an actual and positive long-term agenda for Caspian cooperation. We are facing serious and interesting tasks. And we are intent on consistently solving them. In conclusion, I would like to once again express my appreciation to our Kazakh friends and President Nazarbayev, first of all, for the warm hospitality, and congratulate all of us and all colleagues on the successful holding of this summit. Thank you for your attention. See also Fifth Caspian Summit August 12, 2018
"Mr Nazarbayev, colleagues, friends,
I agree with those colleagues who have
spoken before me: this summit is indeed extraordinary, if not historic.
See also
Convention on the Legal Status of the Caspian Sea
August 12, 2018
The Convention
On the Legal Status of the Caspian Sea, a document that we
have been negotiating for over 20 years, at last formalises our exclusive
rights and the responsibility each of us carries to protect the future of the Caspian Sea, and it establishes clear guidelines for its collective use.
I want to thank everybody involved
in this major project, heads of state, negotiators and experts alike.
Based on consensus and consideration for our mutual
interests, we have produced a modern and balanced international agreement. The convention will replace the Soviet-Iranian agreements of 1921 and 1940.
It is important that the Convention
regulates the issues of necessary delimitations, regimes of navigation and fishing, establishes the principles of political and military interaction of member states, and ensures the use of the Caspian Sea solely for peaceful
purposes and the non-presence of the armed forces of non-regional states in the sea.
Regulating the legal status of the Caspian Sea creates the necessary conditions for taking the level of cooperation between the countries to a brand new level and will serve to develop closer interaction in various areas.
The six specialised agreements in the economic, transport and security areas that
were signed today, among others, will provide the necessary legal foundation
for this. It is Russia’s aim to work jointly with all Caspian states on the implementation of these agreements.
In particular, the agreement on economic cooperation in the Caspian region will serve as basis for paying
priority attention to boosting regional, trade and economic ties, as well as enhancing close and mutually beneficial cooperation.
Additional
Statement by Vladimir Putin following the Fifth Caspian Summit
August 12, 2018
I should note that the volume of trade between Russia and the Caspian states constantly grows. In 2017, foreign
trade increased by over 20 percent and amounted to $22 billion, while in January and February this year it grew by over 10 percent.
The decisions being adopted on establishing the Caspian economic forum will allow us to reinforce contacts
between our countries' business communities.
Russia suggests that the 'Caspian
five' states focus on cooperation in the digital economy, actively introducing
information and communication technologies and e-commerce, and engaging in the digitisation
of foreign trade operations, cargo transportation and logistics.
We expect that the intergovernmental
agreement on cooperation in transport in the Caspian region will serve to develop a common integrated infrastructure. Transport interconnection is one of the key factors for securing sustainable growth and strengthening our
countries' cooperation.
In this regard, I would like to inform you that Russia has adopted and is currently implementing the Strategy
for the Development of Marine Ports in the Caspian Sea until 2030. It defines the prospects for comprehensive modernisation of the Caspian sea communications and related railway and motor transport infrastructure.
In particular, there are plans to construct a new deep-water port near Kaspiysk that will receive large-capacity
ships with actual loads of 15,000–25,000 tons.
We are taking strides to integrate
Russia’s port capabilities into global and Eurasian transport and logistic
networks, increase the competitiveness of cargo and passenger transportations,
and multiply the volumes of processed cargo.
We support the project of the International North–South Transport Corridor, which provides for rail, ferry
and automobile services, which we intend to develop.
Its launch will allow for a 2.5-fold
increase in the speed of transporting cargo, which will amount to 25 million
tonnes delivered annually via Iran from European countries to the Middle East
and South Asia.
The development of a five-party
agreement on cooperation in marine transport could go a long way in developing
international transportation and providing equal unified conditions for transit
across the Caspian Sea. Experts from the five countries can now more closely
engage in drafting such an agreement.
I should note that tourism is a promising area of cooperation as well. According to available estimates,
Caspian Sea resorts could receive over one million vacationers annually. Yet, this
requires a modern tourism infrastructure.
Russia is building the cruise ship
Pyotr Veliky
(preliminary commissioning
deadline is 2019), which, once built, can be used for circuit cruises in the Caspian Sea, stopping in all five Caspian states, and also carry out cruises in the Caspian and Black seas as well as in the Sea of Azov.
We also plan to boost the development
of tourist clusters in coastal areas, building new hotels and recreation centres.
The relevant authorities of the five countries should draw up a programme for such joint projects in tourism.
We deem it equally important for the Caspian states to interact in preserving the environment and biological resources.
The five states already are successfully implementing a number of beneficial
agreements, such as the Framework Convention for the Protection of the Marine
Environment of the Caspian Sea, Agreement on the Rational Use of the Biological
Resources of the Caspian Sea, and the Protocol on Environmental Impact
Assessment in a Transboundary Context.
These documents provide for strict
environmental control over infrastructure projects that may create potential
risks for the Caspian Sea.
Last year, a specialised
intergovernmental commission of the 'Caspian five' adopted an important
decision on extending a ban on commercial fishing of sturgeon. Russia welcomes
the temporary ban on fishing for this valuable species and is ready to support
a longer moratorium. It is advisable to quickly complete work on documents that
will regulate our joint fight against poaching.
Colleagues, we are well aware of the responsibility of the Caspian states to provide security in the region. There
are spots of instability in close proximity to the Caspian Sea, such as the Middle East and Afghanistan, and therefore our core interests and even life
itself require that we cooperate closely.
It is important for the 'Caspian five' states
to further boost consistent interaction in fighting terrorism and organised
crime and to expand the joint efforts of our special services and border
agencies. Corresponding protocols to the agreement on cooperation in security
of 2010, to be signed today, are aimed at this.
Russia fully supports these decisions
and is ready to actively engage in their implementation. In the future, we
should also think about developing a separate document on cooperation to stop
drug trafficking in the Caspian region.
We deem it important to develop
partner relations in the area of our naval forces, in particular, to implement
regular reciprocal visits of our ships, expand the mutual participation of ship
crews in various events, such as the Sea Cup international competition as part
of the International Army Games in the Caspian region.
The intergovernmental agreement on prevention
of incidents in the Caspian Sea is very important, as it will considerably
strengthen the system of confidence-building measures in the region.
Regular consultations as regards our
countries' navies and regular meetings of our naval commanders could serve as an efficient mechanism of cooperation in this field.
And of course, joint efforts should
be continued under the agreement on cooperation in emergency prevention and response.
Our rescue services hold joint
exercises, and act out special scenarios of incidents and possible disasters to rehearse joint actions. This practice must undoubtedly be continued.
In conclusion, I would like to thank
Mr Nazarbayev for the major efforts Kazakhstan has made to prepare this
important meeting.
Thank you for attention."
Good afternoon. I would like to brief you on what we did during these two days and on the results of our work. First of all, I would like to remind you that BRICS Background information BRICS developed in a natural way, which we pointed out today. The first meeting of our group, which was smaller at the time, was held in St Petersburg in 2005, if memory serves me correctly, and brought together the leaders of China, Russia and India. The group was called RIC then, which stood for Russia, India and China. Brazil and subsequently South Africa joined our group later, which is why it is called BRICS. Initially, our goals and tasks were very modest. We wanted to join forces, primarily in the economy, and discussed the coordination of our efforts towards attaining more ambitious goals in this vital area of activity. As more members joined the group, it developed into a full-scale organisation with new spheres of activity and broader common interests. One of our priorities, as we said at our previous meetings as well as at this meeting, is to fight terrorism and coordinate our activities in politics, trade and the economy in the broadest possible meaning of this word. I would like just briefly to go through what we did this time. To begin with, this is our 10th summit meeting. The main subjects we discussed included resistance to unilateral approaches in global affairs, the protection of multilateralism, and the use of the advantages of the fourth digital industrial revolution. We endorsed the Johannesburg Declaration that is aimed against economic sanctions and the use of force in violation of the UN Charter. It is also designed to prevent an arms race in outer space, support the Astana process on a settlement in Syria and preserve the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action. The declaration includes the Russian initiatives on drafting an agreement on IT and communication technology, forming a platform for energy research and establishing a women’s business alliance. This new Russian initiative came about spontaneously, to be honest, but was enthusiastically backed by the participants. It deals with BRICS cooperation in culture, sport and cinematography. The participants even endorsed a sketch of the prize to be awarded at the BRICS film festival that we planned to organise and hold in the future. The summit sent a powerful signal in favour of preserving the WTO, against protectionism and changing the rules of world trade. Inter-governmental memorandums were signed on cooperation in regional aviation and environmental protection, and an agreement on establishing a new Development Bank office in Sao Paulo, Brazil. The united session of the outreach BRICS Plus has just ended or is about to end. The themes are also known – consolidation of BRICS standing in the world and development of cooperation in Africa. BRICS has been supported by multilateral international associations. As you may know, the summit coincided with Nelson Mandela’s centenary. He defended the principles of equality, dignity and justice. These are the principles that underlie BRICS activities. I also had bilateral meetings with the presidents of South Africa, Argentina, Angola, Turkey, Zambia, the People’s Republic of China, and the Prime Minister of India, and also contacts with the leaders of Zimbabwe, Togo and other participants in the recent BRICS outreach meeting. This is a very general outline of the results and subjects that were discussed. If you have any questions, I will try to answer them. Go ahead, please. You know, the advantage of BRICS as a format is that it is free of all the red tape you find in many other associations like this. As President of Brazil, Michel Temer Temer Michel said today, Let me answer this question first, and then you can ask your second question. Russia is not giving up on the dollar, which is a universal reserve currency. The Euro can also claim this status more or less, but not fully. Therefore, we are well aware of what the dollar represents today. As for reserve currencies as such, regional ones are already appearing. To a certain extent, the Russian ruble plays this role in the CIS Background information Commonwealth of Independent States or EAEU countries. In general, the strength and value of any national currency depends on the strength and value of the economy standing behind it. We must proceed from these fundamental assumptions. A few words about the dollar again. We must minimise the risks. We are seeing what is happening with the sanctions that are essentially illegal restrictions. We are aware of the risks and are trying to minimise them. As for the dollar as a reserve currency, we are not alone in talking about this problem, and it is becoming a problem. You are wrong if you think that this is Russia’s initiative. A great number of countries are talking about exactly this – the need to expand the capabilities of global finance and the global economy, and create new reserve currencies. This will make the global economy and global finance more stable. This is abundantly clear. As for our American partners and the restrictions that they are introducing, including in those dollar settlements, I believe this is a big strategic mistake on their behalf because they are thus undermining confidence in the dollar as a reserve currency. This is the bottom line. Quite recently, just several years ago, it did not occur to anyone that such instruments might be used in political struggle, in political competition. The fact that President Trump always seeks to deliver on his promises, primarily those he gives to his voters, the American people, is one of his greater assets. By the way, I believe this to be a positive trait of the current president, since more often than not leaders are quick to forget what they promised when heading into the election. This is not the case with Trump. He can be criticised for what he does, as so many do, but it is also clear that he tries to deliver on his campaign promises. As for our meetings, I find them useful. Let me reiterate what I have said on a I will abstain from commenting on this for now. It is a very delicate, sensitive subject that requires additional analysis. No candidates took a step back. On the contrary, they expressed readiness and willingness to be part of the BRICS framework as full members. But at today’s narrow attendance meeting my colleagues approached this issue cautiously. They are willing to cooperate with other countries and do not rule out BRICS expansion in the future but they believe that it requires additional analysis. This does not mean that the organization is closed, that its doors are closed. No, it is just that this issue should be properly analysed. Otherwise, the organization is open to anyone. That is all. Thank you very much. See also Visit to South Africa. BRICS Summit July 26 − 27, 2018
You know, we should be grateful primarily to our aides, our staff who have been interacting with each other not only recently to prepare this meeting, but for months before that. I am referring to the work of our agencies in the spheres of special concern for the United States and Russia, primarily counterterrorism. President Trump and I pointed out today that terrorism is a bigger threat than it may seem at first glance. If the worse comes to the worst, God forbid, and terrorists lay their hands on weapons of mass destruction, the consequences will be terrible. Our military and special services are building relations in this sphere of crucial importance for our countries. A case in point is our cooperation in Syria, even though we do not fully agree on the global goal and ways to achieve it. However, we maintain cooperation between our militaries and special services. Their work concerns the fight against terrorism in the broad meaning of the word. Then, the New START treaty will expire in 2021. What should we do about this? I assured President Trump that Russia is ready to extend this treaty, but we definitely need to discuss details. We have questions we need to ask our American partners. We believe that the United States does not fully comply with this treaty, but this should be discussed at the expert level. We also talked about Iran’s nuclear programme. We talked about what we can do to improve the situation in North Korea. I have said this before, but I will repeat that I believe President Trump has done a great deal to promote the settlement of this conflict. However, we will need international guarantees to attain complete denuclearisation of the Korean Peninsula. Russia is ready to contribute towards this to the extent that will be required. Therefore, it can be said that we can see eye to eye on these and several other issues of concern to us. This allows us to say that much has changed for the better during our meeting today. And you can see that these efforts did not work out, and they could not have worked out, considering Russia’s size and importance in the world, including in the sphere of global security, as well as in the economy if we consider at least the energy component of the global economy. I believe that our understanding of the things that unite us and the things we should work on together is prompting us to admit that we must stop fighting each other and should instead join forces to deal with common problems in the fight against shared concerns, so as to overcome these concerns. Therefore, I believe that this is the beginning. It is a start. I believe we have given a good start to this today. Let me start my answer to your question from a different angle. Look, everyone is talking about Russia’s alleged interference in your election campaign. I said this in 2016, but I would like to repeat this today, and I would like the American audience to hear my reply. First, Russia as a state has never interfered in the internal affairs of the United States, let alone elections. I will answer your question, have patience and you will hear a comprehensive answer. As for interference in the internal affairs of the United States. Do you really think that it was possible to influence US elections from Russia, to influence the choice of millions of Americans? This is ridiculous. I will answer you now, if you bear with me, you will hear my answer. This was the first thing. Second, I said this in 2016, and I want to repeat it again now. What was the problem? It concerned the hacking of a Democratic candidate’s email. Did this attack involve manipulation with facts? This is very important. I want the Americans to hear this. Did anyone manipulate with the facts or plant fake information? No. The hackers involved – don’t worry, I will get back to your question – read that candidate’s emails and learned about manipulations within the Democratic Party in favour of one of the candidates. That is all. As far as I remember, the leaders of the party’s executive bodies resigned. It means that they admitted this fact. I believe this is the crucial thing. You must stop manipulating public opinion and apologise to the voters for what was done, rather than keep looking for those who allegedly did this. Now back to these issues. I said at the news conference, and I can repeat this now. Mr Mueller… Listen to me. There is nothing false in the information at my disposal. Everything it says is true, and the leadership of the Democratic Party has admitted it. This is the first thing. Second, if you do not like my answer, please say so, and I will say no more. But if you want the American people to know my opinion, then have patience. As for the specific accusations, Mr Mueller has brought charges against a Russian company, a small business working primarily in the catering industry. I have spoken about this before. This company has hired American attorneys to protect its name in an American court. This court has not yet found any trace of interference by this company. Do you know about this or not? Let the millions of Americans know about this as well. Now for the citizens mentioned here. We have a treaty on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters, a valid treaty that was signed in 1999. It has been applied quite effectively. I cited an example of its effective application. Why cannot Mr Mueller and his colleagues… You are doing this. Why cannot Mr Mueller send an official request to us within the framework of this treaty? Under this treaty, Russian investigators could question all the individuals that our American colleagues suspect of something. I have said this before. Why has none of this been done to this day? This is surprising. Nobody has sent an official request to us… This does not concern me. These are your internal political games. Do not hold Russia-US relations hostage to your political infighting. By the way, it is obvious to me that this case has been used for internal political fighting, and this is nothing to be proud of for US democracy. Using law enforcement agencies for political infighting is inadmissible. I have said what I think regarding this fact. Please, send us an official request… I do not want to assess his work. It is not for me to do this. Let the Congress which appointed him do this. By the way, the court is not sure that Mr Mueller has been appointed as special counsel in full compliance with American legislation. According to the court, he was appointed to his current position in violation of the law. But it is no concern of mine. You deal with it yourself. As for suspicions and charges, a procedure is stipulated in the above treaty which you can use to send requests. Of course. First, about why we talked as cultured people should. Why does this come as a surprise? Did we need to meet, go to Helsinki, Mr Trump across the ocean and I from Moscow to abuse and throw mud at each other? This is not how things are done in the global diplomatic practice. There is no need to meet if you only want to quarrel and worsen relations. We met to find ways to improve our relations, not to destroy them completely. This is the first part of my answer. The second part concerns the compromising materials you asked about. No, we have no compromising materials and cannot have any. I do not want President Trump to take offence, and I do not want to sound impolite, but we had no interest in him until he announced his decision to run for president. He is a wealthy man, but there are many wealthy people in the United States. He was in the construction business and organised beauty pageants. Nobody ever thought he would be elected president. He never indicated that he had any political ambitions. So the idea of compromising materials is nonsense. As you know, I said at the news conference that 550 American business leaders visited St Petersburg , and every one of them is more important than Mr Trump used to be. Do you think that we put pressure on each of them, that our secret services shadow them, spy on them and tap their conversations? First, we do not do this, unlike you. Do not judge others by yourself. Second, we do not have the funds, resources or personnel to spy on everyone. This is just not in our plans. It is simply impossible, and we certainly did nothing of this kind with regard to Mr Trump. The situation in NATO is as follows. I know about the decision-making mechanism used in the bloc. Of course, its decisions are taken by consensus, but before taking them, individual NATO members can be contacted on a bilateral basis, as it was done with regard to Poland and Romania, which now host elements of the US strategic missile defence system. This poses a direct threat to our national security. Therefore, the advancement of NATO infrastructure towards our borders poses a threat, and our reaction to it will be extremely negative. No, we did not discuss this, although it is an issue of concern for us. The NATO infrastructure is expanding, and the number of NATO servicemen in the regions where there should not be any has increased by 10,000 people. Under the Founding Act on relations between Russia and NATO, there must be no servicemen there. It is certainly a destabilising factor. We must take it into account in our relations. But President Trump and I did not talk about this today. A war is in progress and this is the most horrible thing that can happen to humankind. Of course, victims are inevitable. And people always ask, who is to blame? As I see it, it is the terrorist groups, which have destabilised the country, that are to blame. I mean ISIS, Jabhat al-Nusra, and the like. They are the true culprits. This is exactly what the US military reply, when they deliver strikes at civilian facilities in Afghanistan, Iraq or some other country. On the whole, although this may seem debatable to someone, but on the whole this is true. As far as Syria is concerned, US aircraft delivered very serious strikes at the city of Raqqa. Earlier today, President and I talked about the need to undertake efforts for humanitarian operations. I think we managed to make some headway in this direction. I am looking forward to the implementation of the plans we discussed today. Everything is to be verified and assessed. But I would like you to return to what I have just said about Raqqa. The aircraft that were attacking this city were piloted by American… Well, we can talk about Aleppo and Ghouta, but then let us talk about Raqqa too. Don’t snatch some things out of their context and forget about other things. All right? You are completely wrong; I wish you were familiar with the real situation in Syria. A lot of civilians died in Raqqa. Raqqa has been wiped off the face of the earth. Now it is a solid mass of ruins resembling Stalingrad during World War II, and, of course, there is nothing good in all this. Let me make a As for the video, it did not indicate that the missile targets US territory. You have to watch it more carefully. This is the first thing I wanted to say. Second, all our strike systems target… No, it did not say Florida. This is not true. Watch it one more time, and pay more attention. It did not say Florida. All it made clear was that the missile was headed to the other side of the globe. No, you could not see this on the map. Just pay more attention when you watch instead of scaring your people with threats that do not exist. Yes, watch it carefully. Do you want me to give you this video as a gift? As for the strike systems, let me remind you that they did not emerge out of nowhere. They emerged as a response to the unilateral withdrawal by the United States from the ABM Treaty. We warned our American colleagues right from the outset that we were not ready to build a missile defence system, since we did not believe in its effectiveness, and it was too costly. Instead we said that we would do everything to penetrate this shield. As I have said on numerous occasions, but let me repeat it for the American audience, First, nothing has changed about me. I am the same as I was then. I became President of Russia when I was a grown man, and a person’s predisposition and fundamental beliefs do not change at that age. But we have to react to what is happening around us. First, the two waves of NATO’s eastward expansion. When Soviet troops pulled out of Germany, First of all, we all have many political opponents. President Trump has many political opponents too. Take any person involved in state… Sometimes they do. Haven’t Presidents been killed in the United States? Have you forgotten about that? Where was Kennedy killed, in the US or in Russia? And what happened to King? As a matter of fact, what happens during clashes between the police and civil society activists, for example, from ethnic African-American organisations? Does this happen in Russia or in the US? This is all taking place in the US. You have many challenges within your country. It is a sad truth that Russia has not been spared criminal activity. In fact, the Russian state is still in the making, and unfortunately there are many manifestations of this kind. We are fighting this, and hold perpetrators to account. You have mentioned the Skripals. We want to see the documents on this case, to get a glimpse of any materials. No one has said anything specific, just as with the accusations against Russia of meddling in the political processes in the US. We have not seen a single document. We now learn that two more people have suffered from the toxic agent referred to as Novichok, but I had never even heard their names. Who are these people, how were they hurt and why? No, let’s stay on the subject. What bottle? Who picked it up? Where? What was its chemical composition? Or can it be that these people suffered from something else? Can it be that you have to look inside Great Britain to find the cause? No one wants to get to the bottom of this issue. These are absolutely groundless accusations. Why all this? Why make our relations worse? We want to build a proper relationship with Great Britain as well. I do not claim to be a symbol of Russia. But from the point of view of current law, the national flag, the anthem, and the presidency itself are to a certain extent the symbols of the country – and not only those of Russia but also of any other country. I hope that my work also reflects what Russia is engaged in, what it is concerned about, and what it is ready to do to normalise our relations with all countries, including, of course, with such a great country as the United States of America. I have mentioned the economy. Look, I cited these examples to Mr Trump. Currently, the Europeans sell $100 billion worth of goods on our market, plus another $50 billion worth of services. China sells approximately $57 billion worth of goods on our market. But do you know the figure for US sales? Twelve . And another $5 billion of services. This is the result of your policies, including the sanctions policy. But who needs that? You have just chased your own big companies from our market. They have left and made way for rivals, including in major projects that they were extremely interested in and invested in. Some of them even lost money. What is that for? We are interested in developing relations in the area of security, strategic stability, crisis management, the fight against terrorism, and the economy. I hope that today President Trump and I have made at least the first step in that direction.
Mr President, I am delighted to meet with you here, in Helsinki, the capital of hospitable Finland. We have maintained regular contact. Over the past few months, we have talked on the phone and also met several times at various international events. Of course, the time has come to hold in-depth discussions on bilateral relations and global problems, the number of which shows that we must devote our attention to them. Thank you very much.
Good afternoon, welcome everyone. I suggest we immediately get down to your questions without any statements from me because President of China, Mr Xi Jinping has just reported at the news conference on the progress and the results of our work today. So, please, if there are any specific questions for me, go ahead. First of all, we reaffirmed that our relations with China are on a very high level; we agreed and signed a corresponding declaration with President Xi Jinping on further cooperation on the political track, and on dealing with various threats. I must also note that this confirmation was of vital importance, because with all the current issues piling up, we still should not lose sight of the main avenues of our cooperation. One of them is our interaction in the international arena, particularly in international organisations such as the UN, the G20, the BRICS, the SCO and others. That is, the very fact that we have reaffirmed the high level of our interaction and talked about the need for its development, in my opinion, is of great importance for present-day international relations and for Russia-China ties. That is the first thing. The second thing concerns the political sphere. As for economic issues, here I would single out the feasibility study for a broad Eurasian economic partnership that we signed. It will take some time before the treaty itself can be signed. This still requires more work, but this is the first serious step towards organising a major regional economic union. As I said many times, it is certainly compatible with both the EAEU we are developing and the Chinese Belt and Road initiative in its economic dimension. Therefore, I believe it is a very important step in building our relations. All this undoubtedly fits in with the vigorous development of mutual trade – reaching 87 billion last year. I am confident that if this continues, and this is obviously the case, at least we have shown significant growth in trade for the first quarter, we can probably reach 100 billion dollars by yearend. As for the SCO's efficiency in its expanded membership, it does not cause any doubts. I understand perfectly well what you mean when you talk about efficiency. You know, neighbouring countries often have issues that require additional attention from the leadership of these countries, problems that need to be addressed. This is quite natural and normal. Organisations like the SCO are created so that they would have platforms for resolving these complex problems. Strictly speaking, the SCO was created, as I have said many times, to resolve border issues between China and the newly formed states from both sides of the border. All these issues have been successfully resolved, as you know, including the signing of the Border Agreement between Russia and China. I would like to emphasise that until then, they had negotiated it for 40 years. Then the SCO was established, and gradually, this platform helped us to resolve those border issues. The same with other countries in the region. True, there is a problem, but organisations like the SCO are created precisely to solve these kinds of problems. Therefore, I welcome the fact that we agreed in the end to expand the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation by adding India and Pakistan. I hope that all the countries of the region will use this Organisation for in-depth work in a multilateral format, and to resolve bilateral issues. As for expansion, we agreed that the current structure is optimal. We will have to look at how the Organisation will fare in this expanded format. You are right; it was only the first meeting with India and Pakistan as full members. We need to see how it works, and then together with our colleagues, we will analyze this work and decide on further steps regarding the expansion of the Organisation. As for Russia’s return to the G7, or G8 – we have never withdrawn from it. Our colleagues refused to come to Russia at some point for well-known reasons. We would be happy to see everyone in Moscow, they are welcome. That is first the first thing. Second. As for the efficiency and volume of the economy, indeed, the purchasing power parity of the countries of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation is already higher than in the G7 countries. Yes, it is, the PPP is higher. True, the seven are still richer in per capita income, as they say, but the SCO economies are larger, and their population is much larger, too – half the world's population. As for the various difficulties in the negotiation process within the G7, I need to take a look at this, I do not know the details. Of course, this is also of interest, these are the largest economies in the world. We can see that there are internal problems there. Well, it happens. You know, when I look at our debates in the EAEU, we also have disputes and do not unanimously sign everything at the same time. I think this is common practice. It is necessary to deal with this calmly and without any irony. I would draw attention to one more circumstance, which, in my opinion, is more significant than any emotional outbursts. What do I mean? As far as I know, the President of the United States said the US is considering the possibility of regulating the additional supply of automotive equipment in the US market. This is a serious matter. This can really hurt the economic interests of so many countries, above all European, of course. Well, let us see how things will really unfold. This is of significant importance for the entire world economy. On the other hand, it could be noted that there is one more group where practically all countries – both the SCO and the G7 members – meet to discuss common issues. I am referring to the G20. By the way, if we talk about the results of the SCO's work, I would say that alongside terrorism and security issues, which are in the focus of our attention, we reaffirmed today – and President Xi Jinping also said it at a meeting with the press in a statement – we reaffirmed our willingness to adhere to the generally accepted and formulated rules of international trade. I think that in today's difficult situation, this is a very important statement, which, I hope, will help stabilise our joint activities in this area. No, I could not. I do not actually think it is part of my job to comment on everything that happens at the G7. As for those destabilising actions, just as with regard to some other events, everyone has shown solidarity with London over the Salisbury events, but yet again nothing specific was said. What they said was that this event happened with a high degree of probability. Solidarity on this issue arises on some very unsteady ground. It seems to me that we must abandon all this creative chatter and turn specifically to issues of real cooperation. Since that conversation was Ukraine’s initiative, I think this fact already shows their interest in an agreement. At least I really hope so. We discussed the issues of extradition of people who are detained on both sides, and discussed the case of the Russian journalist, this at my initiative. It is too early now to say how this issue will be resolved, so I would refrain from commenting to avoid more problems. Sasha and I are good friends. He even said he might return to Russia to play here. But his contractual obligations prevented him from doing so. In fact, maybe it is not bad for his personal career, because he has now finally won the Stanley Cup. I congratulate him, as well as the whole team he plays with; this is a great achievement for any team in world hockey. As for the meeting, we meet regularly. We met even before he won the Stanley Cup. I did not, because I was busy working, as they say in such cases. The President of the United States has repeatedly said that he considers this meeting expedient, and I agree that this is indeed the case. I can reiterate, in our last telephone conversation he expressed his concern about the threat of a new round of the arms race. I agree with him. But to discuss this specifically, our respective foreign ministries need to work, and experts need to work very closely together. Personal meetings are certainly necessary as well. As soon as possible. As soon as the American side is ready, this meeting will be held immediately, depending on my work schedule. About the location. We did not talk about this in detail, but many countries are willing to render such assistance to us, including several European countries, Austria among them. I have not heard anything else. But I think this is a technicality. What is important is that the meeting, if it takes place, is filled with specific content. All this is connected with the original idea and proposal by President Xi Jinping regarding the Silk Road and its economic dimension. We, as you know, support this. We signed an agreement on the deepening of cooperation between China and the EAEU in Astana. This is one more step. At the beginning of our meeting, I said that during my visit to China that has just taken place, we signed a feasibility study of the Eurasian economic partnership. All of that fits well into the wide-ranging and promising work in the huge Eurasian region. The Shanghai Cooperation Organisations countries, as I have already said – and as has been confirmed by the IMF – have a combined economy that has become larger than the G7 economies in Purchasing Power Parity. It means that we have tremendous prospects. If we also recall that the region’s economic growth rate is significantly higher than the world’s, then the prospects will look very good and very attractive for all nations. We know about China’s record-high growth rates. I have just spoken to the Indian Prime Minister. India is currently showing a record growth of 7.7 percent. Thank God, Russia’s economy has resumed growth. It is a modest growth as of yet and is not comparable to China’s and India’s, but it is already in positive territory and will only go up, I have no doubt about that. Therefore, for the global economy on the whole, with a regard of the fact that we once again reaffirmed our commitment today to free trade principles and fighting protectionism; all this is crucial for world trade and for the global economy. As I answer your question, before we finish our meeting, I would like to express my gratitude to the Chinese people and the leaders of China, President Xi Jinping for an exceptionally warm reception, especially during my visit to the People’s Republic of China. Everything was on a high professional level, there is no other way to say this, everything was organised in a warm and friendly way, and was very effective. Thank you very much. All the best. See also Shanghai Cooperation Organisation Summit June 10, 2018 Geography People's
Mr President, Colleagues, I share my colleague’s opinion that the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation is successfully progressing. With the accession of India and Pakistan – whose leaders are attending the meeting for the first time as full-fledged members – our organisation has become stronger, expanding its boundaries and capabilities. I would like to stress that countering terrorism remains the priority for cooperation within the SCO. The programme adopted today on countering terrorism, separatism and extremism identifies cooperation benchmarks in that area for the coming three years. The programme envisions holding joint drills and counter-terror operations, streamlining a closer exchange of experience and operational information. We expect the SCO Youth Council to actively participate in our work on preventing the recruitment of young people to participate in terrorist activities. One of the SCO’s priorities is assisting in the political and diplomatic settlement of conflicts near the external borders of the organisation’s member states. The situation in Afghanistan calls for special attention, I agree with my colleagues who spoke about this earlier. It is crucial that we fight the terrorist threat emanating from that country in unison, curb drug production and trafficking and render aid to Afghanistan in its national reconciliation, economic revival and stabilisation. There has been good progress in the fight against terrorism in Syria. Thanks to the coordinated actions of Russia, the Syrian Government, Iran, Turkey, and other partners, including Kazakhstan, terrorist activity has become largely suppressed in that country. This opened the way to a political settlement. Colleagues, I would like to note that the Government of Syria today controls an area that is home to about 90 percent of the country’s population. Damascus is following the agreements reached at the Syrian National Dialogue Congress in Sochi in January, and has sent proposals on constitutional committee members from the Government of the Syrian Republic to prepare the new fundamental law of the country. Therefore, the Syrian Government is fully abiding by its obligations and has shown its commitment to a political dialogue. Now it is up to the opposition. Undoubtedly, our countries cannot help worrying about the situation around the Iranian nuclear program. The US withdrawal from the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action could destabilise the situation. Russia stands for the consistent, rigorous implementation of the JCPOA. For our part, we will continue to honour all our commitments. The problem on the Korean Peninsula is having a significant impact on the security situation in the SCO space. We positively assess the desire of Pyongyang, Seoul and Washington to reach a comprehensive resolution of the crisis through dialogue and negotiations in line with the roadmap proposed by Russia and China. The SCO should continue to help normalise the situation in the region. Russia welcomes the forthcoming summit between the United States and North Korea and acknowledges China’s great contribution to the resolution of the Korean crisis. Colleagues, An important track of SCO activity is the development of mutually beneficial economic ties between our countries. Trade and investment are gaining momentum. We are simplifying the mutual availability of goods and services, improving customs regulations, eliminating unnecessary administrative barriers, and implementing joint projects in energy, transport and agriculture. We are working on several integration initiatives between our countries. In May, a cooperation agreement between the Eurasian Economic Union and China was signed in Astana, Kazakhstan. It is important to take additional steps that would lead to increased coordination in the implementation of trade, investment and infrastructure projects through the EAEU and China’s Belt and Road programme. Russia and China are also preparing an agreement on the Eurasian Economic Partnership, which, of course, will be open to all the SCO countries. I would like to use this opportunity to invite representatives of your countries to participate in the first meeting of the heads of regions of the SCO member states and in the Forum on Small Business of the SCO and BRICS regions, which are to be held in the Russian Federation. Colleagues, at the end of the year, the term of office of the Secretary General of the SCO and the Director of the Executive Committee of the RATS expires. I would like to express my gratitude to our colleagues for their efficient work and wish success to their successors. In conclusion, I would like to thank President Xi Jinping and all our Chinese friends for their very warm welcome and hospitality and congratulate China on its successful presidency of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation. Today, Kyrgyzstan is taking over. Our Kyrgyz friends can count on all possible assistance from the Russian side. Thank you. See also Meeting with President of Uzbekistan Shavkat Mirziyoyev June 9, 2018 Meeting with President of Tajikistan Emomali Rahmon June 9, 2018 Meeting with President of Iran Hassan Rouhani June 9, 2018 Meeting with President of Mongolia Khaltmaagiin Battulga June 9, 2018 Meeting with Chinese President Xi Jinping and Mongolian President Khaltmaagiin Battulga June 9, 2018 Geography People's
First of all, I would like to thank you for your interest in Russia and for your decision to meet here today. I would like to take this opportunity to extend my best wishes to the Chinese people. We know that we have many friends in China. And the fact that you watched the inauguration online shows that the ceremony, and Russia in general, are of interest to the Chinese. I would like to wish the Chinese people all the best, happiness and prosperity for every Chinese family. Speaking about the new term as President of the Russian Federation, if you were watching the ceremony, you probably heard what I was talking about. Russia’s continued progressive development as well as ensuring economic growth, introducing more innovations, developing infrastructure, healthcare and education and, of course, providing security are all our priorities, and when I say “our,” I refer to myself and my team. We will focus on positioning Russia on the global stage as a country that adheres to the principles of international law, respects its partners’ interests and, of course, will protect its own interests. In this sense, I would like to say that we pay great attention to cooperating with our traditional and reliable partners, allies and friends. The People’s Republic of China is, of course, among them. Russia and China are neighbours. We have been interacting for centuries, and our historical ties and roots go very deep. It is not by chance that in recent decades, as neighbours, we have built a relationship that probably cannot be compared with anything in the world. It is truly built on consideration of each other’s interests. Look, in 2001, we signed the Treaty of Friendship and Neighborliness, but this treaty is only the foundation we have built our current relationship on. With every year passing, we add new paint and new floors to that building; it is growing taller and stronger. You know, I cannot share some things, as these are personal observations and a personal relationship. But President Xi Jinping is probably the only world leader I have celebrated one of my birthdays with. Either because I did not have that kind of relationship or because schedules would not permit it, I had never celebrated a birthday with any of my foreign colleagues before. But I did with President Xi Jinping. And then , it was a very simple event. I will be frank, I do not know, he probably will not be angry with me if I share that we drank a shot of vodka and just cut up some sausage. We just did it at the end of a workday. But I want to start with this, if we are talking about personal characteristics. He is a very accessible and sincere person. But at the same time, he is a very reliable partner. I can be sure that if I reach an agreement with President Xi Jinping, we will both always strive to meet our obligations. This is the first thing. Second. Like many leaders of other countries – this, I think, unites all of us – in his work, he strives for the best result for the benefit of every person in his own country. He is a good analyst and it is interesting to discuss world problems and economic issues with him. Therefore, he is a very comfortable partner for me and a good and reliable friend. The SCO was initially established as a relatively modest organisation to deal with issues between Russia, China and a number of former Soviet republics. Let me repeat, our goals were relatively modest, but in the process of gradually addressing them we realised that we have many things in common, in the sense that we can achieve more significant results than simply frontier matters. And the SCO began to develop. After India and Pakistan were admitted to the SCO, it became clear that comprehensive work should begin, begin in China, and also that the SCO has become a global organisation. This is an obvious fact, because our countries account for a quarter of the global GDP, 43 percent of the world’s population and 23 percent of the planet’s total area. The resources are immense. Considering the growth dynamics in Asia, in China and India, we will try to give a boost to Russia’s economy and support the dynamics we need. All of this, together with our military capabilities, constitutes a huge force that we, of course, will not use for confrontation but for establishing the necessary conditions for multifaceted cooperation between our countries and with other countries as well, wherever they are on the globe. Of course, joint efforts of such a powerful group will be an important factor for our own development, and will also influence the international situation. I am confident that this influence will be positive. Yes, I would like to. I like both seafood and beer, although I try not to drink often, but I would like to taste it and will gladly do so. We have always supported this idea. President Xi Jinping’s Belt and Road Initiative has both economic and humanitarian elements. First of all, we are speaking about the economy and the infrastructure. We believe this is a useful, important and promising initiative. It meets our efforts to build the Eurasian Economic Union. In addition, recently, on May 17, the Eurasian Economic Union and China signed an agreement on economic cooperation. For now, it does not concern lowering tariffs, but other very important issues, such as trade policy, technical regulations and phytosanitary control. In fact, we are making a very important step towards removing the barriers to economic cooperation. Still, President Xi Jinping’s idea, as we see it, This is one of the key areas. We know how much attention both President Xi Jinping and the Government of the People's Republic of China pay to the development of modern forms of management and to such promising areas as the digital economy. We believe that this, of course, is closely related to such important areas of the future technological order as robotics and artificial intelligence. In the modern world, all major discoveries, the most promising discoveries are made at the intersection of sciences. This includes biology, genetics, and other areas that, of course, will make those who succeed in them leaders of world development. And we, not forgetting about our traditional spheres of cooperation, will, of course, strive to join our efforts with our Chinese friends in these key areas of today and especially tomorrow. We have relevant ideas, plans and some developments of our own. We know that China already has had significant achievements. For example, in the field of the internet of things and digital commerce. However, this will not be enough for successful development in the short term for both China and Russia. We need to develop digital technologies in industry, in infrastructure, in energy, including in the electric power industry, and in alternative types of energy. There we can and need to introduce the latest developments, the latest achievements. If we do this, we will be absolute leaders. We will strive for this. I look forward to good, positive relations. We are not surprised by any restrictions or sanctions; this does not frighten us and will never force us to abandon our independent, sovereign path of development. I believe that either Russia will be sovereign, or it will not exist at all. And, of course, the Russian people will always choose the first. I think the Chinese people feel the same. There is no other way for us. But we understand that our partners are trying to limit our development by imposing these restrictions and sanctions. I have no doubt that this, as lawyers say, is an exercise in futility, and nothing will come of it. This policy primarily hurts those who initiated it. However, I believe that common sense will still prevail, that all illegal restrictions that are harmful to the development of the world economy will be gradually removed, and we will normalise our relations with all partners, including the United States, and other countries that did their bidding and also imposed these sanctions. By the way, those who, as I said, did the US’s bidding, are beginning to suffer from what the United States is starting to impose on these countries themselves. All this taken together gradually – and I am not gloating or being sarcastic – but it all speaks to the fact that these means cannot be universal, and sooner or later it will become obvious that their use harms everyone, including the initiators of these initiatives. In the end, I hope that our relations will normalise one way or another. Speaking about the Korean peninsula, our approaches, as diplomats say, are the same or similar. Probably the first. We were the initiators of a roadmap for the settlement process on the Korean Peninsula. Recently, China has done a lot to defuse the situation somewhat. We are very happy to see this and will provide any support we can. As you know, the Russian Foreign Minister is in North Korea now having talks with its leaders, including on a settlement process. We can also see that the North Korean leaders have taken unexpected, even for me – I would even say unprecedented – steps to de-escalate the situation. First, they announced that they would stop nuclear testing. In addition, they have already destroyed one of their largest nuclear test sites. Of course, these are all practical steps towards denuclearisation, which is our common final goal. I can understand the North Korean leadership when they talk about the security guarantees they need for total denuclearisation. How else could it be? There is no other way imaginable, especially after what happened in Libya and Iraq. The North Koreans have not forgotten. So of course, they would demand guarantees. Today it is difficult to say what these guarantees may look like or when they will come into effect. However, we can, and should, Please do. The person who asked this question mentioned that Russia is the host of this tournament. So our main and essential goal, as the host country, is to provide good organisation of the World Cup and make it a real festival for millions of football fans all around the world. This will be our main achievement. As regards the national team, I have to acknowledge that, sadly, our team has not enjoyed great results lately. But we, all the fans and football lovers in Russia, have high hopes that our team will make a good showing, play a modern, interesting and beautiful style of football, and fight to the finish. This is a tough question. There are many contenders. There are Latin American teams – Argentina and Brazil. At previous World Cups, the German team has performed brilliantly, and the Spanish team has played a beautiful brand of football too. There will certainly be other contenders, but only the best will win. Yes, I will. Also, as the President of the host country, I will be attending the opening and closing ceremonies. I will check my schedule. I will attend more matches if I can. There are footballers whom I consider outstanding and whom I can definitely call my favourite. Lev Yashin among Russian and Soviet players, and Pele among foreign ones. I also like Maradona very much. Every day I spend about 2–2.5 hours doing sports. I go to the gym, I swim, sometimes I get out on the mat, if I have sparring partners, and sometimes I play hockey. Not really play hockey but try to. I worked in the intelligence service of the Soviet Union, in the foreign intelligence service of the Soviet Union. I already have a profession. But I graduated from St Petersburg State University with a degree in law, so I could have worked as a lawyer, but I worked all my life in security agencies and in foreign intelligence in the Soviet Union. Then I worked in the executive authorities in St Petersburg. I enjoyed each of these activities. I think that I really could work as a lawyer. Yes. I brought it because President Xi Jinping mentioned that he loves Russian ice cream, so I brought it for him as a gift. He and I exchange trifles occasionally. But it will ruin the surprise, if I tell you in advance what I will bring him as a gift. It will be a secret between me and you, I will whisper it in your ear later. Thank you! Geography People's
I will just say a few words. Japan is undoubtedly one of our priority partners when it comes to cooperation in the Asia-Pacific region. And not just in Asia. We would like our relations with Japan to acquire global dimension. Actually, our Japanese friends often act exactly like that. Mr Repik has just told us about Toyota’s activity here in St Petersburg, that is, in the north-west of the Russian Federation. I know that the goods manufactured here go not only to the Russian domestic market but also to neighbouring countries. You know that Russia is making steady progress on the path of integration in the post-Soviet space. We have set up, as many of you are no doubt aware, the Eurasian Economic Union, and it already represents a market of 170 million people, an actively developing market established on WTO principles. This means we have no boundaries to the flow of goods, investments and workforce. It is very convenient to work in such a market, including via the Russian Federation. We took a keen interest in Japanese Prime Minister Abe’s initiatives on developing Russian-Japanese relations in eight priority fields, and have already proposed an 80-project plan on its basis. Some of these projects have already kicked off. Japan’s achievements in high technology are world-renowned, as are those in particular industries where Japan has been and remains an absolute leader. We are naturally interested in working in those fields. We place special emphasis on developing traditional cooperation areas, including energy. The automobile industry has already been mentioned here. The Prime Minister pointed out, including at today’s panel discussion, the possibility of working in healthcare. There are concrete proposals here, including working together in the fight against cancer. I should stress that Russia also has something to offer to our Japanese friends and partners. To sum up, the tenor of Russian-Japanese relations right now gives me every reason to hope that the volume of Japan’s investments – it is currently fairly modest, let us say, around two billion dollars overall – in the Russian economy, as well as the volume of trade – which is also modest so far in view of our potential, something like 18 billion dollars as of last year – all that can be increased many times over. And we are aware of our Japanese friends’ interest in improving relations. I would like to assure you that for our part we will do everything possible to ensure favourable conditions for investing and for the economic activities currently underway. Thank you very much.  First, I would like to thank our colleagues for the attention to cooperation with Russia and for working in our market in general. But I will start with the last issue. Digitalisation and digital transformation is one of our priorities and not only in the petrochemical and energy industries. In general, we want to work more actively – and we spoke about this at today’s panel discussion – in the area of artificial intelligence, and the digitalisation of the economy as a whole, including the energy industry. There are plenty of areas here, which are primarily linked with enhancing efficiency and reducing costs. Japan has really succeeded in this respect, and not only in the hydrocarbon energy industry but also in energy transfer and consumption. There are many areas here and you know this much better than I do. Our power companies are working on resolving these tasks and are doing a good job. The same applies to energy production and transportation and all other related processes. You decided to cooperate with Gazpromneft and this is a good choice because it is one of the advanced, high-tech companies in this area. Probably, now I understand, maybe partly owing to you, that it is paying much attention to resolving these tasks. Quite recently, I had an opportunity to talk with the head of this company. He told me in a very general sense what this company is doing in this area. However, there are no restrictions on work with our other large companies – both private and publicly owned, such as Gazprom, Lukoil, Transneft and private energy companies that are working in Siberia – this is where the production is mainly. There are no restrictions at all. You are welcome to work with electric power companies. This work is very important in hydropower engineering. To sum up, there are no restrictions whatsoever. A few words about support measures. These measures are, of course, general in character. We are trying to come up with some benefits to spur the development of the digital economy. We have a whole list of them. Have a look at it, please. I think it will continue to be improved. Regarding the pharmaceutical industry, this is a very important field. We have our programme for the pharmaceutical industry’s development but we are aware that our Japanese friends have succeeded in many areas. I draw your attention to the fact that we have increasingly more foreign partners taking part in this work, primarily from Europe. We have Swiss, Italian and German companies working here. We will definitely welcome that. But there is apparently a problem related to drug registration which may take a year and a half. There is too much red tape here. We have advanced in many areas, and the advances were good, I mean basic issues involved in setting up a business. For example, company registration, grid connection and so on. But purely bureaucratic matters certainly require extra attention. I am not sure we can fully accept certificates for medicines issued by foreign countries, this requires thorough consideration. We have a certification procedure of our own. However, it should become more flexible, there is no doubt about it. I ask the Healthcare Minister to address that, even though we spoke about it a number of times. I heard what our colleagues said, and will look into what is going on in this area. We have very good experience here when our foreign partners work, and they work successfully. We met with French businessmen in this very hall today. Joint insulin production in Russia and its sale to third countries was cited as a positive example. And the number of such examples is growing. Now, regarding work in the Far East. My colleague mentioned in his speech the capabilities of the free port of Vladivostok. We have expanded this regime of the free port of Vladivostok with its various benefits to the other ports of the Far East, but this is all part of the so-called priority development areas. I am confident that our colleagues working there know what that is. Let me reiterate, there is a whole collection of benefits and preferences – starting with the customs and tax regime and ending with administrative procedures. What would I like to say in this context? I know that the matter deals with expanding the term of some benefits and we can, of course, think about this. But we proceeded from the premise that it is first necessary to try and make the most of what is offered today. I understand that this is about bigger investments that take longer to recoup. We are ready to consider this as well. However, to expand the term of benefits that we are discussing, we need to understand the kind of investment we are talking about, the size. We are ready to discuss this. The Minister of Economic Development is present here and is listening to what we are saying. We often discuss this issue between ourselves. These seven years that seem to be the subject of our discussion are a compromise decision on our part. The Ministry of Economic Development often insists on extending this period as you are suggesting. The Finance Ministry believes we should first see how it works in practice over seven years. We are ready to discuss this. Now the next issue linked with currency risks and settlements. I have just said this at today’s meeting with the heads of major international news agencies. I believe the obstacles that our US partners sometimes create for dollar settlements are a big mistake on their part. I think so because, as they try to address momentary political concerns, however unsuccessfully, they are undermining confidence in what is essentially the only reserve currency in the world. All countries without exception are starting to think about how to get away from this US currency monopoly and how to ensure the normal functioning of their financial institutions. I think our American friends should ponder this. I am certain that…in fact I know, because I read American analytical materials, that many experts criticise such decisions in the US itself. However, this makes it necessary to think about how to work normally in these conditions. There is the issue of the volatility of the yen and the ruble, but as you know, we have said it and Ms Lagarde mentioned it today, we can safely say that in recent years Russia has achieved highly stable macroeconomic indicators. We have brought inflation down to an all-time low. Last year it was 2.5 percent, and this year, as our government economists say, it will be three percent or slightly higher. The Central Bank says it will be 2.8 percent. Do you know why this is happening? The reason is that the government members in charge of the economy want to spend more money and proceed from the premise that inflation will edge upward, while the financial authorities whose task it is to hold inflation at bay, say no, if we are careful, we may keep inflation at 2.8 percent. Meanwhile the gold and currency reserves are growing, the external government debt is less than 20 percent, the trade surplus last year was $130 billion and unemployment stood at 5.1 percent. Besides, we have robust growth of investment in fixed assets. While the GDP increased by 1.5 percent, investment in fixed assets amounted to 4.4 percent last year. We all know what this means. It provides the foundation for growth in the coming 12 to 12 to 18 months because last year investments in fixed assets grew 2.5 or actually 3 times faster than GDP last year. Thus, basically, the trends are very positive. The ruble is essentially a fully convertible currency. Let us settle in rubles. We are all for it. We can work out a mechanism of free conversion into the yen, the euro and the dollar. This can be thought out in detail, it simply needs an effort. I believe that together with the central banks, together with the financial authorities on both sides we will certainly solve this problem and will work effectively. I would like to thank you all for the joint work. And I would like to say something else. Yes, problems exist, but still our trade with Japan amounts to $18 billion, with China it is $86 billion and with Germany it is around $50 billion. Obviously, our trade with Japan does not match our potential at all. Yet all our other partners are working in the same conditions, so with them, the situation is different, and we move forward faster and achieve greater volumes. We can certainly do the same with Japan, all the more so because our economies, due to their structures, can well complement each other. We are aware of the keen interest our Japanese friends are showing in cooperation in the field of energy, and how Japan feels about buying our gas, oil and petroleum products. All this can be done. We can develop nuclear power together. We discussed it with the Prime Minister, and we can discuss power transmission lines and cable lines – there are many options – and transport infrastructure. In short, if there is good will, and I see that there is good will on both sides, success is inevitable. Thank you very much. 
Mr Emmanuelle Macron, Mr Shinzo Abe, Ms Lagarde, Mr Wang Qishan, Ladies and gentlemen, friends, I am delighted to welcome all of you to the 22 nd St Petersburg International Economic Forum, Russia. The St Petersburg meetings have become a good tradition. We value the forum’s atmosphere of trust and openness. We have just exchanged opinions, as they say, on the sidelines, about the forum, and Ms Lagarde just told me that she was pleasantly surprised by this friendly atmosphere. Such a discussion and an informal dialogue are particularly important today when the international political, economic and trade system is undergoing a major strength test, and the environment for doing business and making investments, as well as everyday life, going through dynamic changes too. The quality, sustainability, nature and speed of growth of the global economy are increasingly determined by new competences and human knowledge, advanced technology and means of communications, which were simply unimaginable a short while ago. The one who will be able to effectively use these growth factors, to provide a breakthrough in the economy, social sphere, research and education, will significantly improve the quality of life of the people. We identified these goals as our national priorities. In the near future, the newly formed Government should deploy them into specific action programmes, national projects and legislative initiatives, and provide for the necessary resources to achieve these goals. In our development we are going to rely on our human, creative and labour potential. We are ready to learn and adapt the world’s best practices, and, of course, to use our own successful experience in tackling the most complicated structural tasks. We will act primarily proceeding from our national interests. This is natural for any sovereign state. However, it is possible to pursue one’s interests in different ways – either by ignoring others or respecting the position of one’s partners based on the understanding that the modern world is interconnected and countries are mutually dependent, and every state, especially the world’s major economies, bears an enormous responsibility for the common future. Russia is part of the global economy. We are taking an active part in integration processes and exerting serious influence on the energy, food and other markets. This country and our companies are deeply involved in international trade, financial and production ties. This is why we are attentively studying what strategies of economic, technological and social growth other countries are planning to carry out. Naturally, we are not indifferent to what global trends prevail in long-tern perspective. Until recently, global development was based on two most important, determining principles. The first is the freedom of business, trade and investment, which is recorded in the general rules adopted by the participants in international relations. The second is sustainability and predictability of these rules, which is guaranteed by clear-cut legal mechanisms. Based on these values and principles, the world economy managed to achieve impressive results and put into the orbit of development the overwhelming majority of international players, the majority of countries. However, today we are witnessing not even erosion – and I say this with regret – but the undermining of these foundations. The system of multilateral cooperation that was built for decades is being crudely destroyed instead of undergoing natural and needed evolution. Violating rules is becoming a rule. Open markets and fair competition are gradually replaced by all kinds of exemptions, restrictions and sanctions. Different words can be used to describe these notions but the meaning remains the same. Many countries now use these approaches as their official trade policy tools. And some countries simply had to adapt to this environment, respond and come up with tit-for-tat measures. Let me highlight a fact that is quite telling. Until recently, a joint statement was issued following practically every leaders’ meeting of the G20 or APEC with calls to refrain from creating new protectionist barriers. Of course, these statements were non-binding, since new barriers kept creeping up, unfortunately. Today, however, we are unable to agree even on symbolic steps. The Iran nuclear deal has been formalised by an appropriate UN Security Council Resolution. It is a multilateral international document. If we want our actions to be predictable, we must comply with common rules. Unilateral actions lead to a dead-end and are always counterproductive. This is why everyone, all parties to this process must talk with each other openly and look for solutions. An idea occurred to us yesterday when President Macron and I discussed this problem. The United States holds presidential elections every four years. If international legal documents are reconsidered every three or four years at the most, we will have a zero planning horizon. This would create a nervous atmosphere and mistrust. On the contrary, if we respect our agreements, this would lead to stability and initiate the search for mutually acceptable solutions. This is a simple question, because we do not buy oil, we produce and sell it. Russia is a major oil supplier in the international market. As for sanctions, Russia supported the sanctions against Iran that were adopted by the UN Security Council, but we never supported anything that is enforced by anyone unilaterally. I always said so and always considered such actions to be harmful and counterproductive. Experts in Russia and the West recall the speech I made in Munich in 2005, when I spoke about the unacceptability of the exterritorial use of national legislation, or more precisely, US legislation. Many people in the United States and Europe were angry with me. But this is exactly what I warned everyone about. And now we see this in full bloom. “Dinner is served, enjoy.” If we look carefully at what is happening and react in good time, there will be fewer such problems. We supported everything that was proposed by the international community to convince our Iranian partners to accept these arrangements. It should be noted that our Iranian partners made many compromises and are honouring their obligations now. I have recently met with the IAEA Director General – he is a respected person and the head of a respected organisation that is trusted universally. He told me once again that according to IAEA data, Iran is fully honouring its commitments. Why should it be punished then? I do not understand this. This is the first part. The second part concerns what will happen if this deal is destroyed. Would this benefit anyone? Would this benefit the international community and the region? Will the regional countries, including Israel, with which we have very good ties, feel safer? Mr Netanyahu has recently been in Moscow. Moreover, he attended the events we held to mark the victory over Nazism, and he marched on Red Square with a photograph of a WWII hero. It was a unique gesture and evidence of the good trust-based relations between us. But will Israel be better off if Iran withdrew, is forced to withdraw from or is pushed out of this deal? In this event, Iran’s nuclear activities will be hidden from everyone, and we will not know what is happening there. What risks will this create? Look, we are still grappling with North Korea. There are many problems there, and none of them has been settled. Do we want to create one more problem of this kind, or even a bigger problem, considering the explosiveness of the region? I do not think so. Therefore, I believe we must not get worked up. We should conduct a dialogue calmly in a considerate and professional manner, and we must find a solution. As for sanctions, I have said that we always supported legitimate actions approved by the UN Security Council, and we never supported anything that was enforced unilaterally.  Provocator. I was not related to Mr Trump’s election campaign. But of course, we cannot be satisfied with the level and nature of Russia-US relations. We are ready for this dialogue. Mr Trump suggested having a meeting specifically on the issue but we have not had a chance to have it yet, there have been too many issues to address. However, we are ready to have a substantive dialogue on a great number of issues. I think it is high time we did this. Donald has expressed concern over a potential new arms race and I fully agree with him. The steps we are discussing now, both on the North Korean problem and Iran, they are not bringing us closer, that is for sure. And this is also a reason to discuss them. Emmanuel said that Europe and the United States have mutual obligations. Europe depends on the US in terms of security. But there is no need to worry, we can help with security. At any rate, we will do everything we can to prevent any new threats. I think we need to take this road. This is the first thing. Second, as concerns the United States and the US President losing by withdrawing from the Iran nuclear deal, I will talk this over with the French President. I do not think so. I do not think that President Trump lost. First of all, because he is fulfilling his election obligations. And in that, he has won in his domestic policy, to a certain extent. However, if the deal gets completely ruined after all, many will indeed lose. We must do everything we can to prevent this from happening. Of course, this requires working with all participants, first and foremost, with the United States. Why? Because – let me take you behind the scenes of this deal – the main dialogue took place between the US and Iran. The other participants in the talks only adjusted the process slightly, including Russia. I am not going to hide this, we often did it to protect Iran’s interests. Eventually, after rather extensive bilateral talks between Iran and the US, everybody reached a compromise. This means that, despite all the difficulties, the two countries managed to agree. Even now, the US President is not closing the door on talks. He is saying that he is not happy about many of the terms of the deal. But in general, he is not ruling out an agreement with Iran. But it can only be a two-way street. Therefore, there is no need for unnecessary pressure if we want to preserve something. Doors must be left open for negotiation and for the final outcome. I think there are still grounds for hope.  President of France Emmanuel Macron : I just wanted to say that I am not saying the Iranian agreement was Trump's defeat; I was talking about the climate agreements. I said that he cannot threaten this agreement with Iran at the international level. I am just explaining what the consequences might be, but these are agreements between us. As for security, I would like to assure Vladimir that I am not at all afraid, because France has an army that alone can defend the country. However, I have certain obligations with regard to other European allies. I think that the European security architecture I just spoke about is our responsibility. But in any case, we will not turn our backs, and this should not be done to the detriment of other European states. I think we can act this way, so I am not afraid and I want to fulfil my responsibility. It is a pity. You do not need to be afraid, of course, but the practice is already accumulating. Look, we all are focusing on Iran now. After all, European economic operators have already faced US sanctions – 9 billion for Paribas, a French bank, and Deutshe Bank – just for violating unilateral sanctions. So what? They paid. And a Japanese bank went through the same thing. It is necessary to end this, as it is unacceptable. That is what this is about. What if this continues? What good will it do? It is destroying the existing world order. We must certainly agree with our American partners about some common rules of conduct. This is extremely important, because it is precisely what is at the heart of our discussion today – trust. Either there is trust, or there is not. If there is no trust, nothing good will ever come about. Then really, as I said in my remarks, force will remain the only element that is left in international affairs, and this can simply lead to tragedy in the end. You see, today we already mentioned sports, and my good friend, Mr Prime Minister imagined Russia and Japan playing in the World Cup final. This is not a good idea. What if we lose? It would be an unimaginable disaster. But that is beside the point. The point is we are seeing in the world today a situation where everyone pretends to be playing football, while actually following the rules of judo. I discussed this issue yesterday, and I can repeat that, unfortunately, we were not allowed to take part in a full-fledged investigation. Therefore, we have no reason to completely trust the results of this investigation. We are not involved in it. The commission conducting this investigation does not heed the arguments we present so that they could be taken into account during the investigation. I would like to note once again that this is a terrible tragedy. Yesterday, Emmanuel rightly said that we must always remember the families of the people who perished and the people who died as a result of this terrible disaster. Of course, it goes without saying that we will always remember this. But, for some reason, no one even recalls the fact that Ukraine had failed to fulfil its obligations stipulated by the International Civil Aviation Organisation and did not close the air space over the conflict zone. There are different versions of what happened in this tragedy, but no one considers them. Therefore, it will be very hard for us to accept the findings of this commission, which is working without us, unless there is a full-fledged investigation. That is it. Unfortunately, we have experienced some other tragic incidents linked with Ukraine. Some time ago, they downed a Russian aircraft flying from Israel over the Black Sea and did not admit their guilt. They did later, but did not pay any compensation whatsoever. Unfortunately, we have a negative history. Regarding this specific tragic incident, we would like to take a full-fledged part in the investigation. Of course, not. I Each country has its own national priorities and its own interests. I spoke about this in my remarks today. We will certainly strive to attain our national interests. What are they, today and in the near future? First of all, internal development. We need to ensure the growth of labour productivity in our economy, create an attractive environment for investment, because without investment, it is impossible to meet another important goal – to diversify our economy. Ms Lagarde here told me about it yesterday and hinted again today. But we had a 4.4 percent growth in fixed investment last year, and 11.5 percent economic growth. This is a good sign –accelerated growth in investment, but this is not enough at all. Absolutely not enough! To attract capital from friendly companies and countries, we need good relations with Europe, and with the whole world, including the United States. We understand this perfectly and are aware of this. But if we are faced with a choice – either to remain a sovereign state or to suffer certain restrictions – then, of course, we choose the first option. The winners will be the organisers, those who organise this wonderful event at the proper level for the entire international community, for all lovers of this great international game. In any case, this is how we see our mission. As for the teams, may the best one win, as they say. I would really like it to be a
To begin with, I would like to thank President Macron for coming to Russia and St Petersburg. We had a very substantive discussion on international issues yesterday and a very open, meaningful and, I think very useful exchange on bilateral ties. France is a traditional, old and reliable partner. I say that it is a reliable partner because France always took an independent stand on international affairs and always tried to at least uphold its sovereignty. We appreciate this. It is especially important and highly valued today as an earnest of stability in relations. Overall, stability is what matters most in international affairs, as well as in interstate and economic ties. Our relations with France are developing consistently and progressively. Our trade increased by 16.5 percent last year and by 25 percent in January-March 2018. As for investment, France’s direct investment has reached $15 billion, and Russia has invested around $3 billion, or more precisely, over $2 billion, which is not enough. But the French investment is not enough either. I Well, he did not go too far away. Mr Shuvalov will now work with the Government in one of Russia’s development banks. So he will have a lot to do. I would like to follow up on what my French colleague said on urban development. This and spatial development in general are priority areas for us. Our French colleagues possess many world-class competences in this field. The President of France mentioned our cooperation in space. But there is much more to it. I think that we had 15 or 17 space launches as of the end of 2017, and another two or three launches from Kourou are scheduled for this year. Let me remind you that we also cooperate in aircraft manufacturing. After all, the Russian medium-haul SuperJet 100 aircraft includes a significant share of French parts. I do not remember the exact figure, but it is at least 25 percent. We are already selling this aircraft to third countries, while we all know that this is a very challenging business, and how hard it is to promote aviation products on the global markets. We also work in the pharmaceuticals industry and construction. All in all, there are many things we do together. It is particularly good that Russia has developed a diversified relationship with its French partners. This diverse mix can pave the way to success moving forward. Mr Macron talked about the need to enhance economic sovereignty, but this is relevant for the entire world. I will not go into details right now, and I will not point fingers or criticise anyone. This is not the reason we gathered here today. It is clear however that we need to work on the capacity of our own markets, and promote cooperation and integration. We need to resist the trend of markets becoming secluded from one another, because separatism, be it in the economy or any other kind of separatism, always means trouble. We have all it takes to step up cooperation and achieve positive results without trying to oppose anyone. There is no doubt that in this case both France and Russia would stand to benefit. Thank you very much for your attention.  Patrick indeed raised a few questions. The first one was in fact a question about improving the business climate. We are getting there; we have a whole programme for that. I hope it will be implemented. I already spoke about stability of the macroeconomic policy. We will achieve the same in taxation policy. Now the Government is working on introducing certain changes to the taxation system. But once we are done, we will commit to it for the next six years. In that respect, businesses can be sure that the taxation terms will be observed. Then we will develop infrastructure. Patrick himself just recalled that we built a port with businesses’ participation; however, the Government met its commitments in full. We will develop the infrastructure not only for this project but for others as well – and the infrastructure in general – because the infrastructure is one of the priorities outlined by me in my Address to the Federal Assembly and by the Government. After that, we will be reducing administrative barriers and administrative pressure on businesses. There is still work to do in this area. In fact, this is not only our problem. I know that businesses have to deal with it in many countries. And finally, direct financial support and concessions for the projects that, we believe, are of national importance. These are the areas of focus. Now, concerning Yamal LNG. Indeed, they built an entire city around it. I was greatly impressed, also because, frankly speaking, in the very beginning there were many sceptics, even in our country, even in the gas industry, who doubted that it would be possible to carry out such a large project at those latitudes. But along with our Russian partners, along with NOVATEK, along with Chinese partners, we managed to make it a reality. Total has a 20-percent share in it. I know that the second stage is about to be built. For now, the annual capacity is 16.5 million tonnes. I think it will soon be 18 million. Their LNG is sold all over the world, including the US market. Everything is fine, everybody is buying it, everything works. As regards our gas pipeline projects, specialists in this field know that in some cases it is reasonable to implement liquefied natural gas projects – for instance, supplies to the United States, India and other remote markets; it is most reasonable to implement them through liquefied natural gas projects. With certain distances and supplies, it is only pipeline gas that is most profitable. This is why all our gas pipeline networks are connected to main customers in Europe and have practically no competitors – of course, as long as Europe wants to stay competitive and does not want to purchase gas at triple the price from other producers. The thing is that production and supplies for such distances and with such volumes allows us to reduce prices for liquefied natural gas, which could technically be supplied from the United States, by at least 30 percent. Numerous liquefied gas handling terminals have already been built in Europe and only 25 percent of their capacity is being used as the rest is economically impractical. That is all. As far as I know, the French company Engie takes part in Nord Stream 2. We will welcome other participants, including Total. We can expand this list by adding other European companies, because this is truly a pan-European project. We know that it is being opposed, but mostly for the reasons of competition because our American partners want to supply their gas to Europe. I have already said how the economic parameters of these supplies correlate. There are also geopolitical issues involved, in particular, transit across Ukraine. I will once more repeat that we are not going to cut transit via Ukraine as long as it is economically feasible; we are ready for talks with our Ukrainian partners. But the thing is that when we talk about the Nord Stream 2 project, we are talking about plummeting production in Europe, the Netherlands and Great Britain. And these shortfalls in volume must be substituted. The most right and economically feasible substitution option is Russia's pipeline gas, that is all. But we are ready to further discuss it with our partners. Thank you very much.  Not to sound impolite, but Patrick asked another question on transporting gas to Europe through pipeline systems, speaking of your current Russian partners, and this can be done today via Gazprom Export. . What is funny about it? Nothing. Sorry, we are speaking a kind of secret language with him, we understand what we are talking about. But of course, we will think about liberalisation. Today, Nord Stream 2 involves five European companies. If Total is the sixth one, it will be welcome to directly participate in the transportation. We can talk about it and discuss it now. Sooner or later, it will be done in a totally liberal mode. Nevertheless, we can discuss these issues today.
Good afternoon, friends, It gives me great pleasure to see you here today. I would like to address my first words to our colleagues to whom I will present the Order of Friendship of the Russian Federation, which is a pleasant mission for me. I would like to thank you for being guided by long-term interests in developing relations between Russia and your respective countries despite the challenging international and economic environment and the ongoing developments. You took into consideration not only a medium-term outlook, but looked further ahead by placing trust in your Russian partners as you undertook ambitious and inspiring major projects. I believe that all your undertakings were a great success. I do hope that your example will catch on, in a positive way, so that more and more of your colleagues from around the world follow your lead. Cooperation between Russia and its partners will steadily develop, yielding real, tangible benefits for our economies and people. I would like to thank you once again for working with Russia and I propose that we move on to the solemn and agreeable part of the event. Ceremony for presenting state decorations. Thank you. Congratulations!
Mr President, I am happy to see you in Russia. At the beginning of our meeting I would like to congratulate you on the start of the holy month of Ramadan. I would also like to congratulate you on the major success of the Syrian Government Army in the struggle against terrorist units. Due to the efforts of your army recently, important steps have been made towards the further consolidation of the legitimate government. Terrorists have laid down arms in key areas of Syria, which made it possible to restore the country’s infrastructure, push them back and practically end their operations near the Syrian capital. And, of course, after these military successes, additional conditions have certainly been created for the resumption of the full political process. Much has been done during the Astana process. Much was accomplished at the Syrian National Dialogue Congress in Sochi. Now we can take further steps jointly with you. The next goal is, of course, economic recovery and humanitarian relief for the people who have found themselves in a predicament. See also Statements following Russian-Syrian talks May 17, 2018 As you know, we are in contact with all sides of this complicated process, including the United Nations and Special Envoy of the Secretary-General Staffan de Mistura. I would like to discuss with you all of these areas of our joint work. Welcome! President of Syria Bashar al-Assad al-Assad Bashar : Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I would like to congratulate you on the start of your new term in office. I believe that this election success proves the correctness of your policy both domestically and internationally since the Russian people see that the positions of your country on the global stage are becoming stronger thanks to your actions. And I am happy to meet with you in Sochi again after our meeting several months ago. A great many positive changes have occurred in between these two meetings. First of all, the fight against terrorism. The terrorist-controlled areas have decreased significantly. Hundreds of thousands of Syrians have been able to return to their homes in recent weeks, millions more Syrians are on the way. Stability is improving, and this opens doors for the political process that we launched some time ago. I always said, and I will repeat it now, that we always enthusiastically support the political process that should unfold alongside the fight against terrorism. We know that it is not going to be easy as there are countries that do not want stability in Syria. However, we will firmly move on with you and with our other partners on the issue of the peace process to achieve peace. Today’s meeting gives us a good opportunity to work out our joint positions for the coming period regarding the negotiating process in Astana and Sochi. Thank you again, I would like to especially thank the Russian Armed Forces, particularly the Aerospace Forces, which have played a very important role in fighting terrorism. Thank you.  Geography Syria Topics Foreign policy Persons al-
Ladies and gentlemen, I am happy to welcome you to the presentation of credentials ceremony and congratulate you on the official start of your diplomatic work in Russia. You are entrusted with a very responsible and important mission – to do everything you can to facilitate the development of ties between the countries you represent and Russia, to enhance the political dialogue for this purpose, to expand trade and economic ties and to promote humanitarian and cultural contacts and exchanges between people. For our part, we are ready to support your constructive initiatives. You may rely on the assistance of Russian leadership, our government bodies, business circles and the public. Today, the role of diplomacy and the diplomat has taken on special significance. Indeed, the state of affairs in the world is a cause for concern. The situation in the world is becoming more chaotic, nevertheless we still hope that common sense will eventually prevail, and that international relations will take a constructive course, and the entire world system will become more stable and predictable. Diplomacy includes a wide field of activity; its hallmark is the development of optimal solutions based on a balance of interests. Diplomats try to facilitate a collegial search for answers to large-scale challenges and threats, such as terrorism, drug trafficking, organised crime, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and climate change. As for Russia, we will continue to consistently advocate the strengthening of global and regional security and stability and continue to rigorously comply with our international obligations, and build cooperation with our partners in a constructive and respectful manner, guided by international legal standards and the UN Charter. We will promote the world’s positive, forward-looking agenda and work to ensure the sustainable development, prosperity and wellbeing of humankind. Ladies and gentlemen, today, the heads of 17 diplomatic missions are here. Per tradition, I will say a few words about the interaction with each of the states you represent. We very much appreciate our relations with Nigeria, an important partner for us on the African continent. We support the further expansion of mutually beneficial Russian-Nigerian ties, including cooperation on hydrocarbon extraction and aluminum production, as well as in the military-technical field. This year marks the 55 th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between Russia and Jordan. We are satisfied with the positive results achieved in the main areas of interaction. In September 2017, a memorandum on cooperation between the Eurasian Economic Commission and Jordan was signed. We support the regular and constructive dialogue with King Abdullah II. During our regular talks in February in Moscow, key issues related to the further deepening of bilateral relations, as well as the coordination of joint efforts in the Syrian settlement, were discussed. We appreciate the contribution of our Jordanian partners to the sustainable functioning of the de-escalation zone in southern Syria. The foundation for the cooperation between Russia and Ghana was laid over 60 years ago. We have accumulated a great deal of experience in working together in both the trade and economic sphere and in politics. Currently, we are developing promising projects in the nuclear and oil industries, and we are discussing the prospects of supplying Ghana with Russian airplanes, helicopters and automobiles. Friendly relations with the Republic of Korea are being maintained. There are positive dynamics in trade and economic relations. Last year, trade between the two countries grew by more than 27 percent to over $19 billion. Korean investors are participating in programmes on the accelerated development of Russia’s Far East. We are planning to discuss matters of bilateral cooperation, as well as a range of international issues, including the situation on the Korean Peninsula, with President Moon Jae-in during his visit to Russia this June. The strategic partnership with Egypt is being strengthened. In August, our country will mark the 75 th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations. Cooperation between Russia and Egypt is very active and includes the construction of the first nuclear power plant in Egypt, the establishment of a Russian industrial zone in the Port Said region, and the deepening of military and defence industry cooperation. I would also like to point out that regular flights between the capitals of the two countries have been resumed. We continue to work on resuming the rest of the flights. In December, fruitful talks with President el-Sisi were held in Cairo. We maintain regular dialogue on a range of topics, including relevant international and regional issues that our countries have close or similar positions on. I heartily congratulated the President of Egypt on his resounding victory at the recent elections. The state visit by King Salman of Saudi Arabia, which took place last October, gave a significant political impulse to cooperation between our two countries. We are steadily developing mutually beneficial cooperation in various spheres, promoting various joint trade and economic projects, and coordinating our steps in the global hydrocarbons market. Cooperation between the Russian Federation and Saudi Arabia is an important factor in ensuring security and stability in the Middle East and North Africa. Our ties with the Republic of The Gambia are traditionally constructive. The Russian side is interested in expanding economic cooperation, including by increasing the supply of machinery and agricultural products to the republic. We will continue to expand the practice of training Gambian specialists at Russian universities. Relations between Russia and Austria have a rich history and are developing in a fruitful and friendly manner. Federal Chancellor Sebastian Kurz’s recent working visit to Moscow is evidence of this. Russia appreciates Austria’s policy of permanent neutrality, as well as its balanced position on current issues on the European and global agenda. June will mark 50 years since our country began supplying natural gas to Austria. At that time, a large-scale energy project that was not subject to fluctuations in the political climate was launched. Its implementation has ensured the reliable export of Russian gas to European states and guarantees their energy security. Relations with the United Arab Emirates are developing steadily. These relations are multifaceted, including the implementation of joint projects in the space and nuclear industries, agriculture and tourism. Established investment cooperation has particular importance. Moscow and Abu Dhabi maintain a useful dialogue regarding the situation in the Persian Gulf region and the Middle East as a whole. We are interested in expanding ties with El Salvador. This undoubtedly will be facilitated by the visa-free travel policy between our countries, contacts through foreign-policy and defence departments and inter-parliamentary cooperation. It is important that representatives of Salvadoran business regularly participate in the St Petersburg International Economic Forum. Taking into account the fact that El Salvador is a member of the UN Security Council in 2018–2019, we will build up contacts on current international issues. Friendly cooperation is maintained with the Republic of the Congo. Bilateral cooperation covers a number of major projects, including the construction of a 1,334 km oil pipeline. In February Rosatom and the Science Ministry of the Congo signed a memorandum of understanding. Over 7,000 citizens of the Congo have received higher education at Soviet and Russian universities. The Republic of Cuba is Russia’s long-standing and reliable ally. Our peoples are bound by firm ties of friendship and solidarity and our bilateral cooperation is of a strategic character. We are jointly carrying out large projects in the power industry, metallurgy, transport infrastructure and medicine and are expanding our cultural and humanitarian exchanges. Today Cuba is conducting a consistent course towards socio-economic renewal. This opens additional opportunities for promoting trade and economic cooperation. Cuba has traditionally enjoyed high international prestige. We are satisfied with the quality of the Russian-Cuban dialogue on foreign policy issues. Russia and Vietnam are successfully developing a strategic partnership. We maintain active political contacts at high and top levels. We have coordinated our efforts primarily in multilateral organisations in the Asia-Pacific Region. Vietnam is one of Russia’s leading trade partners. Our trade increased by one-third last year. We also maintain close military and military-technical cooperation. The relevant intergovernmental commission is functioning effectively. In general, our bilateral cooperation is increasing. The current state of relations between Russia and Montenegro is obviously failing to reflect our centuries-old traditions of fraternal friendship and the sense of community of our peoples. Russia favours the development of mutually beneficial ties with Montenegro. We attach great importance to cooperation with Italy, one of our key partners on the European continent. We have accumulated considerable experience of working together in various fields. We know that Italian businesses are interested in building up trade and economic ties with our country. Promising projects in aircraft construction, chemical, gas processing and other industries are underway. The Russian side is ready to step up cooperation with Italy on international issues, including as part of its OSCE chairmanship this year. Cultural exchanges have always been wide-ranging and profound, and have served as a model for many other countries. This year, a large-scale initiative, Russian Seasons, is being implemented in Italy. The programme includes 250 events in various Italian cities. We mainly interact with the Republic of Côte d'Ivoire in the trade and economic sphere. Russia supplies to this country chemical and food products and imports cocoa and its derivatives. As part of our humanitarian efforts, medicine and medical equipment from Russia are regularly sent to the Republic. Currently, Côte d'Ivoire is a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council. We also stand ready to work with the Ivorian side at the UN. Relations with Benin are developing in a constructive spirit. We cooperate on energy and transport. Russia exports food and chemical products. Over 2,500 citizens of Benin have graduated from Russian universities. Ladies and gentlemen, what I have said only partially reflects the multifaceted nature of relations between Russia and the states you represent. We expect that with your active participation these relations will develop dynamically for the benefit of the peoples of our countries and in the interests of international stability and security. I am confident that your time in Russia will allow you to better know our country and its rich history and culture, and will leave you with new unforgettable impressions. I would like to once again wish you success in your difficult, but very important, necessary work and thank you for your attention. Thank you.
Fine. In my opinion, the people you have mentioned are not analysts. What they do is propaganda. Why? Because everything I spoke about today was done not on our initiative, it is a response to the US ballistic missile defence programme and Washington’s unilateral withdrawal from the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty in 2002. If we speak of the arms race, it began at that very moment, when the United States pulled out of the ABM Treaty. We wanted to prevent this. We called on our American partners to work together on these programmes. Firstly, we asked them not to withdraw from the treaty, not to destroy it. But the US pulled out. It was not us who did this but the US. Yet we again suggested we work together even after this. I told my colleague then, “Imagine what would happen if Russia and the US joined forces in the crucial area of strategic security. The world would change for a long period to come, and the level of global security would rise to an all-time high.” The reply was, “This is very interesting.” But they ultimately rejected all our proposals. Then I said, “You understand that we will have to improve our offensive arms systems to maintain a balance and to have the ability to overcome your BMD systems.” They replied that they were not developing the BMD systems to counter us, that we were free to do as we pleased, and that they would not view our actions as spearheaded against the US. No, it was after the US withdrew from the ABM Treaty in 2002, and the conversations I mentioned were in 2003–2004. We have always said that developing the missile defence system creates a threat to us. We have always said that. Our American partners would not publicly admit it, claiming that the system was spearheaded mainly against Iran. But eventually, in conversations and during talks they admitted that, of course, the system will destroy our nuclear deterrence potential. Imagine the situation. What was the point of signing the treaty back in 1972? No, not for good reason.This is complete nonsense. Because the missile defence system protects from the kind of ballistic missiles that no terrorists have in their arsenal. This is an explanation for the housewives watching your programme. But if these housewives can hear what I am saying, if you show it to them and they hear me, they will understand that 9/11 and the missile defence system are completely unrelated. To defend themselves from terrorist attacks, the major powers must join their efforts against the terrorists rather than create threats for each other. With NBC anchor Megyn Kelly. I spoke about several systems today. Which one are you referring to, the heavy-duty intercontinental ballistic missile? All the systems I mentioned today easily overcome missile defence. Each one of them. This is the point of all these developments. Yes, of course. It did, very well. Some of these systems require additional work. Some of them are already deployed. Some are in serial production. Getting back to the beginning of our conversation, there is a missile defence system deployed in Alaska. The distance between Russia’s Chukotka and Alaska is only 60 kilometres. Two systems are being deployed in Eastern Europe. One is already in place in Romania. Construction of another one is almost finished in Poland. There is also the navy. US ships are based very close to Russian shores both in the south and the north. Imagine if we placed our missile systems along the US-Mexico or the US-Canada border in their territories on both sides and brought our ships in from both sides. What would you say? Would you take action? Meanwhile we would respond that you are escalating the arms race? Ridiculous, isn’t it? This is exactly what is happening. I want to say that the United States, when it withdrew from the ABM Treaty in 2002, forced us to begin developing new weapon systems. We told our partners about it, and they said, “Do whatever you like.” Fine, that is what we did – so enjoy. Of course not. I did not know at the time how we could respond, to be honest. So it seems that our partners believed we would have nothing to respond with. Our economy was is dire straits, as well as the defence sector and the army. Therefore, I do not think anobody could have thought that in such a short period of time we would be able to make such a gigantic leap in the development of strategic weapons. I think the CIA must have told the US President that we would not do anything in response. While the Pentagon said something like, “And we will develop a powerful cutting-edge global anti-missile system.” So they did. But I will answer your question directly. I can tell you what we told our American partners, what I said personally at the time. Who was President in 2002, 2003 and 2004? Actually, we kept going on about it for 15 years. I said, almost literally, that we would not develop a system of anti-missile defence the way you are doing. Firstly, because it is too expensive, and we do not have the resources. And secondly, I heard you. I would also like to say that in 2004 – I mentioned this today –I said at a news conference that we will be developing weapons and even mentioned a concrete missile system, Avangard as we call it. It is called Avangard now, but then I simply spoke of how it would work. I openly said how it would work. We hoped that this would be heard and the US would discuss it with us and discuss cooperation. But no, it was as if they had not heard us. Strategic offensive arms reduction and an antimissile defence system are different things. We will be reducing the number of delivery vehicles and warheads under the New START Treaty. This means that the numbers will be reduced on both sides, but at the same time, one party, the United States, will be developing antimissile systems. This will ultimately lead to a situation where all our nuclear missiles, Russia’s entire missile potential will be reduced to zero. This is why we have always linked this. This is how it was in the Soviet-American times; these are natural things, everyone understands this. They can. Today they can. But you are developing your antimissile systems. Antimissiles’ range is increasing, and so is their accuracy. These weapons are being upgraded. This is why we need to respond to this appropriately, so that we are able to penetrate the system not only today but also tomorrow, when you acquire new weapons. Look, I did not say that the testing of some of these systems had been unsuccessful. All the tests were successful. It is just that each of these weapon systems is at a different stage of readiness. One is already on alert duty in line units. Another is in the same status. The work is proceeding on schedule with regard to some systems. We have no doubt that they will be in service, just as we had no doubt in 2004 that we would make a missile with the so-called cruise glide re-entry vehicle. You have been referring all the time to intercontinental ballistic missiles, new missiles… During an interview to American TV channel NBC. No. I am saying that we are developing just one brand of new heavy missile, which will replace a missile that we call Voyevoda , and you have dubbed it Satan . We will replace it with a new and more powerful missile. Exactly, there are two possible reasons for a nuclear retaliation. The START-3 Treaty will expire soon. We are ready to continue this dialogue. What do we consider important? We agree to a reduction or to retaining current terms, to a reduction in delivery vehicles and warheads. However, today, when we are acquiring weapons that can easily breach all anti-ballistic missile systems, we no longer consider the reduction of ballistic missiles and warheads to be highly critical. In the context that the number of delivery vehicles and the number of warheads they can or will carry should, of course, be included in the grand total. And we will show you from a distance what this will look like. Our military experts know how to conduct these inspections. In this sense, there are fine-tuned mechanisms and a sufficiently high level of trust. Generally, military experts are working together professionally. Politicians talk a lot, but military experts know what they are doing. I am also an officer, and I am the Commander-in-Chief. I also served as a military intelligence officer for 17 years. I do not see it from an emotional perspective. This gave me a lot of experience in the most diverse fields. I found it useful when I moved on to the civilian sector. Of course, this positive experience helped me in this sense. You know, after I left the intelligence service, I worked as Assistant Rector at St Petersburg University. I worked with people, established contacts, motivated people to act and brought them together. This is very important in the academic environment. Later, I was Deputy Mayor of St Petersburg. I assumed even greater and broader responsibility. I dealt with St Petersburg’s international ties, and that is a metropolis with a population of five million people. While working in this capacity in St Petersburg, I first met Henry Kissinger. Of course, all this helped me in my work at that time, and my additional experience later helped me in my work in Moscow. It is hard for me to say. I have no other experience. The only thing I know is that my partners, including heads of state and government, are exceptional and outstanding people. They have gone through stringent selection and elimination procedures. There are no chance people at this level. And each of them has his or her own advantages. I am sorry, but this is not a very tactful question. Each of my partners is good in their own right. In all, we had good relations with practically all of them. With Bill Clinton, though he was leaving office, we were able to work together for several months. Then with presidents Bush, Obama, and with the current President too, but to a lesser extent, of course. All of them have something to respect them for. At the same time, we can argue and disagree with each other, and it happens often, we have diverging views on many issues, even on key ones, but we nevertheless managed to maintain normal, human relations. If it were not for that, it would have been not only harder, but much worse for everyone. It is important not to project strength, but to show it. It is also important how we understand power. It does not mean banging the table with a fist or yelling. I think power has several dimensions. Firstly, one should be confident that he is doing the right thing. Secondly, he must be ready to go all the way to achieve the goals. Well, I have breaks. There are your Russian colleagues, there is the internet. But we do not do this on purpose. They take the photos they like. I have lots of photos of me in the office, working with documents, but nobody is interested in them. You know, I have seen “photos” of me riding a bear. I have not ridden a bear yet, but there are such photos already. First, there are many politicians around the world who are older than I am and who are still working active. Not only in the United States, in other countries, too. There are many such people, in Europe and everywhere in the world. But if a person assumes the highest offices, he must work as if he is doing it for the first and last day of his life. There is the Constitution. I have never violated it and have never changed it. Of course, if voters give me the opportunity to serve another term, I You know, these would be very close. Our biggest achievement is that our economy has changed radically. It has almost doubled in scale. The number of people living below the poverty line has decreased by half. At the same time, the number of people living below the poverty line remains large, and we must work on that. We must remove the gap between people with very high and very low incomes. In this context, we have many achievements and many unresolved issues. Back in the early 2000s, our population shrank by nearly a million people a year. Can you imagine the scale of the disaster? Almost 900,000 people. We have reversed this trend. We have even achieved a natural population increase. We have very low infant mortality, and we have reduced maternal mortality to almost zero. We have prepared and are implementing a large-scale programme of supporting mothers and children. Our life expectancy is growing at a high rate. NBC anchor Megyn Kelly. Much has changed in our economy. Thank you. * * * Part 2, Kaliningrad, March 2, 2018 Good afternoon. Why Kaliningrad? Because I regularly visit Russian regions. This is one of these regions. This time, I came here to attend a conference of the regional media, which they decided to hold here. It was not my decision but theirs, your colleagues from the Russian regional media. I have an agreement with them that I attend such meetings once a year and meet with them, and that is why I am here today. It does not have anything to do with any external signals; it is our domestic affair. Of course. We not only can but I think we must discuss this issue if it keeps bothering you. But if you think that the question has been asked, I am ready to answer it. What makes you think that the Russian authorities and I gave our permission to anyone to do anything? You just named some people; I have heard about some of them, some of them I do not know, but they are just individuals, they do not represent the Russian government. Even if we suppose, though I am not 100 percent certain, that they did something during the US presidential election campaign , it has nothing to do with the position of the Russian government. Nothing has changed since we spoke last time in St Petersburg. There are some names, so what? It could just as well be some Americans who while living here, interfered in your own political processes. It has not changed anything. You know, the world is very large and diverse. We have rather complicated relations between the United States and the Russian Federation. And some of our people have their own opinion on these relations and react accordingly. At the level of the Russian Government and at the level of the Russian President, there has never been any interference in the internal political processes in the United States. You have named some individuals and said that they are Russian. So what? Maybe, although they are Russian, they work for some American company. Maybe one of them worked for one of the candidates. I have no idea about this, these are not my problems. Do you know that, for example, after the presidential election in the US, some Ukrainian officials sent messages congratulating Hillary Clinton, even though Trump had won? Listen, what do we have to do with this? Now, in my opinion, Mr Manafort, that is his name, he was initially accused of having something to do with Russia’s interference in the presidential election in the United States. We do not condone or order. But I say that there are internal political processes in the United States itself and there are people who wanted to achieve some result. Well, all right, Russians, but they were not state officials. Well, Russians, and so what? The are 146 million Russian people, so what? What fact? I know that they do not represent the Russian state or the Russian government. And I have no idea what they did and what they were guided by. Even if they did something, then our American colleagues should not just say something in interviews with the media but give us specific data, with proof. We are ready to consider it and talk about it. But you know what I would like to say… Never. Just like the United States, Russia does not extradite its citizens anywhere. Have you ever extradited any of your citizens? This is my first point. Second, I do not believe anything illegal was committed. And, third, we have repeatedly suggested that the United States and Russia establish relations in this area and sign a corresponding interstate treaty on extraditing criminals. The United States has evaded this proposal and does not want to sign it with Russia. What are you hoping for? That we will extradite people to you whereas you will not? This is not a proper way to go about international affairs. There is more to it. Please listen to me and take to your viewers and listeners what I am about to say. We are holding discussions with our American friends and partners, people who represent the government by the way, and when they claim that some Russians interfered in the US elections, we tell them : ”But you are constantly interfering in our political life.“ Would you believe it, they are not even denying it. Do you know what they told us last time? They said, ”Yes, we do interfere, but we are entitled to do so, because we are spreading democracy, and you are not, and so you cannot do it.“ Do you think this is a civilised and modern approach to international affairs? Yesterday, you and I talked about nuclear weapons, and that once the United States and the Soviet Union realised that they were moving towards possible mutual destruction, they agreed on rules of conduct in the security sphere given the availability of weapons of mass destruction. Let us now agree on how to behave in cyberspace, which never used to have such a big role and scope. We made a proposal to the United States, our partners back during President Obama’s The US does this all the time. No, and there are no plans in Russia to do so. It is impossible. It is impossible for us. First, we have principles whereby we do not allow others to interfere in our domestic affairs and do not poke our noses into other people’s business. This is a principle we have. This is the first point I wanted to make. My second point is that we do not have a comparable number of tools. No, we simply cannot do that. This is not a matter of missiles. This is a completely different area. In addition, we lack the necessary instruments. This is a completely different area of activity. It has nothing to do with cyber warfare. Russia does not have the kind of tools the US has. We do not have global media outlets comparable to CNN. You think we do? We have Russia Today, and nothing else. This is the only Russian media outlet, and even then, it was designated… You keep interrupting me, this is impolite. We have one media outlet, Russia Today, and even it was designated as a foreign agent so that it is unable to do its work properly. It is the only media outlet of this kind, while the US has a whole range of outlets, and immense possibilities online. The internet is yours. The United States control all the internet governance tools, all located on US territory. Do you think that a comparison can be made in any way? This is simply impossible. Let us come together and agree on the rules of conduct in cyber space. But it is the US who refuses to do so. I do not even understand what you are talking about. You see, this is just nonsense. The US Congress analysed the information from Russian sources that appeared online. The information coming from media outlets like Russia Today was also analysed and turned out to be one hundredth of a percent of the overall information flow in the United States, just one hundredth of a percent. Do you think that this fraction had any impact on the election? This is just nonsense, don’t you see? This is the same old business when the people who lost refuse to admit it. You see, I have commented on this on a number of occasions. It has yet to be seen what the US policy toward Russia will be like under the current administration. Many things remain unclear, since we have not yet been able to start working or to establish normal contacts. However, it is absolutely clear that the current US President adopted a specific stance in terms of domestic policy, and decided to reach out to the people who were ready to support his campaign promises. This is what led to his victory, not any kind of outside interference. To claim otherwise makes no sense. Will anyone believe that Russia, a country located thousands of kilometres away, could use two or three Russians, as you have said, and whom I do not know, to meddle in the elections and influence their outcome? Don’t you think that it sounds ridiculous? I know this man, but he is not a friend of mine. This is just twisting the facts. There is such a businessman; he works in the restaurant business or something. But he is not a state official; we have nothing to do with him. Certainly not.I have plenty of other things to worry about. Did you hear what I just said? He is not my friend. I know him, but he is not a friend of mine. Was I not clear? There are many people like that. There are 146 million people in Russia. That is less than in the US, but it is still a lot. A prominent businessman? So what? There are many prominent people in Russia. He is not a state official, he does not work for the government; he is an individual, a businessman. Who are those people? And what dirty work? I do not do any dirty work. Everything I do is in plain view. This is your prerogative; some people in your country enjoy doing dirty work. You think we do the same. That is not true. You know, this man could have a wide range of interests, including, for example, an interest in the Syrian fuel and energy complex. But we do not support him in any way. We do not get in his way but we do not support him either. It is his own personal initiative. Well, I know that there are several companies, several Russian companies there, maybe his among others, but this has nothing to do with our policy in Syria. If he does anything there, he does not coordinate it with us; he probably coordinates it with the Syrian authorities or the Syrian businesses he works with. We do not interfere in this. Does your government interfere in every step your businesses take, especially small businesses? It is essentially a medium-sized business. So, does your president interfere in the affairs of every medium-sized US business? That is just nonsense, isn’t it? I do not care. I do not care at all because they do not represent the government. Not at all. They do not represent state interests. If you are worried about anything, state it officially, send us documents proving it and explain what exactly those people are accused of. We will see if they have violated Russian laws… No, this is not true. If they violated Russian law, we will prosecute them. If they did not, there is nothing to prosecute them for in Russia. But after all, you must understand that people in Russia do not live under US law but under Russian law. This is how it is. If you want to reach an agreement with us, let us negotiate, choose the subject, make an agreement and sign it. But you refuse to do this. I Sometimes I think you are joking. A man says something about how he sees our contacts and our work with our foreign partners, the US in this case, in a certain area. I have no idea what he said. Ask him what he meant. Do you think I control everything? So what? There are 2,000 people working in the administration; do you think I control everyone? Peskov is sitting in front of me, he is my press secretary and he sometimes says things that I see on television and think, what is he talking about? Who told him to say this? I have no idea what he said. Ask him. Do you really think I can comment on everything administration or government personnel say? I have my own work to do. Listen, you are exaggerating. I do not know about someone saying something and I am not going to comment on it, and neither do I follow what is going on at your Congress. I am more interested in what is going on at the State Duma, if they have approved a bill on a healthcare or utilities issue; if they delay certain discussions or not. Is a special interest lobbying against a nature conservation, or forestry, or environmental law? This is what I am interested in. You should follow what they are discussing in Congress; I have enough on my plate without that. Listen, sanctions have nothing to do with the myth of some Russian interference in the US election. I think it is impossible to contain Russia anywhere. You need to understand this. Listen, you cannot even contain North Korea. What are you talking about? Why would you do that? Why do we have to contain, attack or cast suspicion on each other? We are offering cooperation. That does not seem implausible to me at all, because we do not have such a goal, to interfere. We do not see what we have to gain by interfering. There is no such goal. Let us suppose this was our goal. Why, just for the sake of it? What is the goal? Listen to me. Not long ago President Trump said something absolutely correct. He said that if Russia’s goal was to sow chaos, it has succeeded. But it is not the result of Russian interference, but your political system, the internal struggle, the disorder and division. Russia has nothing to do with it whatsoever. Get your own affairs in order first. And the way the question is framed, as I mentioned – that you can interfere anywhere because you bring democracy, but we cannot – is what causes conflicts. You have to show your partners respect, and they will respect you. I am the President of the Russian Federation. It is my constitutional duty to address a host of issues concerning the protection of Russia’s interests. When I spoke of patriotic people, I meant that you can imagine that, in the face of a deteriorating Russian-US relationship, people – and people use cyberspace – will express their points of view, their opinions, including on this global network. Of course, they are free to do so. How can we really prohibit it? But we cannot control it and, most importantly, we are not directing it. Please note that this is not the position of the Russian state. Perhaps if we looked into it carefully we would find those people, if they exist. But we have no such goal. We propose holding official talks and you refuse. So what do you want? For us to open investigations just because Congress said so? Let us sit down, sign an agreement on working in cyberspace and comply with it. How do you want to do it? There is no other way of conducting international affairs. I did not say that stopping it is not a goal. I said we had… No, I did not. I said we do not interfere in our people’ private lives and cannot stop them from expressing their opinion, including on the internet. But I also said that Russia’s official position is that we do not interfere in the political processes of other countries as a state. That is the most important part. I want it to be recorded in our conversation today, for people in the US to understand this. I want to say that we will stand in the way of everything that violates Russian law or our international agreements. For the third or fourth time, I will say that we are ready to sign a corresponding agreement with the United States. You still refuse. Let us sit down at the negotiating table, identify what we consider important, sign the document and comply with it with proper verification. I want you to listen to me. We will counter anything that violates current Russian law. If the actions of our citizens – no matter what they are and whom they target – violate current Russian laws, we will respond. If they do not violate Russian law, we cannot respond. Megyn Kelly With this? With anything. If no Russian law has been broken, no one can be held accountable. I must look at what they have done. Give us the materials. Nobody has given us anything. With all due respect for you personally and for the body of the people’s representatives, the US Congress – and we treat all these people with respect – I want you to really understand this. Do you have people with training in law? Of course, you do. One hundred percent. Highly educated people. We cannot even launch an investigation without cause. Our conversation today or an inquiry in the US Congress is not sufficient cause. Give us at least an official inquiry with a statement of facts, send us an official paper. After all, a conversation on air cannot be grounds for an investigation. Absolutely not. If you do not have legal training, I can assure you that an inquiry is required for this. Megyn Kelly I do. Then you should understand that a corresponding official inquiry should be sent to the Prosecutor-General’s Office of the Russian Federation. That said, we do not even have a treaty on how to proceed. But send us something in writing at least. Megyn Kelly Vladimir Putin could not order an investigation into whether this was done in a way that undermines its relations with a major partner, the United States of America? Give us something in writing, an official inquiry. We will look at it. There is nothing in writing. Send an inquiry to the Prosecutor-General’s Office. It is necessary to go through official channels rather than with the help of the media and harsh words in the US Congress, levelling accusations against us that are totally unsubstantiated. Give us something in writing. We believed andI still believe that there were no grounds for this whatsoever. This is the first point. Secondly, this was done in clear violation of international law and the Vienna Convention on DiplomaticRelations. The totally groundless seizure of our property constitutes a flagrant violation of international law. We were strongly hoping for a response from the new Administration. But since none is forthcoming – and I have already said this and the Foreign Minister repeated this – we will turn to the appropriate courts of the United States to protect our interests. This is not about being nice to me personally, in my view. I think he is an experienced person, a businessman with very extensive experience and he understands that if you need to partner with someone, you must treat your future or current partner with respect, otherwise nothing will come of it. I think this is a purely pragmatic approach. This is my first point. Second, even though this is his first term as President, he is a quick study, and he understands perfectly well that trading accusations or insults at our level is a road to nowhere. It would just mean depriving our countries of their last chance for dialogue, simply the last chance. This would be extremely unfortunate. You may have noticed that I, for my part, show respect to him and all my other colleagues, not only in the United States, but also Europe and Asia. Yes, I did. You are aware of our position on that account. We urge everyone to show restraint. The question is not entirely appropriate, because President Trump’s work should be assessed by his constituents, the American people. There is one thing I Well, again, this is up to the American people to decide. He has strong leadership qualities, of course, because he takes responsibility when he makes decisions. To reiterate, whether some people like his decisions or not, he still goes ahead and does it. This, of course, is a sign of leadership qualities. No, I do not. No. I have other means of expressing my point of view or making decisions. Well, Donald is a more modern person. Maybe. This is complete nonsense. Speaking about Hillary, I know her personally, and we generally always maintained a good dialogue every time we met. I cannot understand why at some stage… Her advisers probably suggested that she focus part of her election campaign on criticising developments in Russia. Well, it was their choice. I never took it personally. It was just their policy. As for all those files, this is complete nonsense. They mention some of my friends. So what? As you know, this has had no effect whatsoever. This is nothing but nonsense and media chatter. I have forgotten all about it. I do not remember what it was all about. Actually, nothing of this kind can make me angry. I am guided by pragmatic considerations, not emotions. Yes, I know him very well. He is a friend and a wonderful musician. He has devoted his life to art and music. By the way, many artists here are also involved in business one way or another. Apart from me, Sergey also has other ties in the country, including business people who have involved him in this work. He has made his money legally. He has not made hundreds of billions . Everything he earned he has spent on the purchase of musical instruments abroad, which he has brought to Russia. He uses some of these instruments personally, for example the cello. He plays the cello. Yes, something like that. But it is a unique instrument. Yes, it is. He must be eccentric, but then, all artists are eccentric. To spend all this money on musical instruments. I think he bought two cellos and two violins. He plays one himself and has given the others to other musicians, who are playing them. He has brought all these instruments to Russia. Well, I know nothing about his business, but I do know that he has only enough money to buy these musical instruments. All the rest is on paper. He does not have anything else apart from what he has bought. Maybe he does have something else, but you should ask him about it. I do not control his life. Listen, just look at many Russian art figures, and probably there are people like this in your country as well. After all, there are art personalities in the US, including Hollywood celebrities who either run restaurants or own some stock. Aren’t there many people like this in the US entertainment industry and art world? I am sure that there are many people of this kind, and more than in Russia. In Russia, there are also quite a few art figures who do business apart from their creative work. In fact, there are many such people, and he is just one of them. So what? The question is not whether he runs a business or not or whether he made a profit or not. The question is whether there were any violations. As far as I know, he did not commit any violations. This is not my money, that is for sure. I do not even know how much Mr Roldugin has, as I have already said. As far as I know, he has not committed any violations in his business and creative undertakings, he did not violate any Russian law or norm. This is all nonsense. There were no investments in Trump properties in Russia, as far as I know. I do not even know if there were any serious plans for making these investments. Look, you keep thinking that the whole world revolves around you. That is not the way it is. Do you think we know everything what Donald Trump’s son has said? You see, this is not the way things are. Donald came here to Russia when he was not even nominated. I did not even know that he had been to Russia. I learned about it only afterwards, when I was told that as it turned out he had been to Russia. By the same token, I ignore what his son said on this occasion. Did Donald Trump’s son infringe on any rules or laws? If so, charge him. If he did not, why do you keep picking on every word? No, I had never met him. You mean before he became President and before he decided to run for President, right? No, we had not met. We never talked to each other, neither by phone or otherwise. We will see what the Russian voters decide. As for the question about whom I could work together with and whom I would not want to work together with, I can tell you in all honesty that I would like to and am ready to work with people who want Russia to become a stronger, more effective, competitive and self-reliant country. But to achieve that, the people we are talking about should have a clear plan of action designed to promote national development in today’s environment. There are people like that, including … Any person can be pardoned if he deserves it. If he deserves it. There are no exceptions for anyone. No exceptions. But we are not talking about pardon now; we are talking about certain political forces. They do not have a development programme for the country. What do they have that is positive and what I like? That they expose problems, and this is actually good, this is the right thing to do, and it needs to be done. But this is not enough for the country’s progressive development, simply not enough. Because focusing on problems is not enough; moreover, it is even dangerous, because it can lead to destruction, while we need creation. I do not think that I should talk about my political plans with you now at this meeting, in this conversation, in this interview for American television. But I think I told you yesterday, I never changed the Constitution or adjusted it to my needs, and I do not have any such plans today. As for China, before criticising decisions in a country like China, you need to think and recall that there are 1.5 billion people living there and, after thinking about it, you need to come to the conclusion that we all are interested in China being a stable and prosperous state. How it should be done best, it is probably up to the Chinese people and the Chinese leadership. What your so-called experts say is their wishful thinking. I have heard a lot of nonsense like this. Why do you think that I will necessarily be succeeded by people ready to destroy everything I have done in recent years? Maybe, on the contrary, a government will come to power determined to strengthen Russia, to create a future for it, to build a platform for development for the new generations. Why have you suddenly decided that some destroyers would arrive and wipe out whatever they can? Maybe there are people who would like this, including in the United States. But I do not think they are right, because the United States, I think, should be more interested in the other option – in Russia being a stable, prosperous and developing country, I mean if you really can look at least 25–50 years ahead. I have been thinking about this since 2000. Thinking is not a crime, but in the end, the choice will still be up to the Russian people. Whether I like or hate someone, other candidates will run for president and eventually the citizens of the Russian Federation will make the final decision. Of course. Firstly, the Syrian Government destroyed its chemical weapons long ago. Secondly, we know about the militants’ plans to simulate chemical attacks by the Syrian army. And thirdly, all the attempts that have been made repeatedly in the recent past, and all the accusations were used to consolidate the efforts against Assad. We are aware of these goings-on, and they are not interesting. One wants to say, “Boring.” Are you sure that these deaths are the result of chemical attacks by the Syrian Government? I, on the contrary, blame this on the criminals and radicals, on the terrorists who are staging these crimes in order to lay the blame on President Assad. Of course. I am absolutely sure that it was. Because there was no serious investigation. Maybe there were dead bodies, which is to be expected in a war. Look here, to be sure that this was indeed how it happened, a thorough investigation must be conducted and evidence must be gathered at the site. Nothing of this has been done. Let us do this. There was nothing of the kind. Russia did not say “No.” Russia is for a full-scale investigation. If you do not know this, I am telling you this now. It is not true that we are against an objective investigation. That is a lie. It is a lie just as the vial with the white substance that allegedly proved that Iraq had weapons of mass destruction, which the CIA gave to the US Secretary of State. He later apologised, but the damage had been done, the country had been ruined. This is yet another piece of fake news, which has no substance behind it. An investigation should be conducted to gather the substance. We are in favour of such an investigation. I will tell you that a) we have nothing to do with this, and that we demand a full-scale investigation. As for crimes, go back to Raqqa and at least bury the dead bodies, which are still lying amid the ruins after the air strikes at residential neighbourhoods there. And investigate these attacks. This will give you something to do. Unfortunately, we are not. But we were not the ones who made the US our adversary. It was the US, the US Congress, who called Russia its adversary. Why did you do that? Did Russia impose sanctions on the United States? No, it was the US that imposed sanctions on us. No, I do not. Can I ask you a different question? Why did you encourage the government coup in Ukraine? Why did you do that? The US directly acknowledged spending billions of dollars to this end. This was openly acknowledged by US officials. Why do they support government coups and armed fighting in other countries? Why has the US deployed missile systems along our borders? Listen, Russia and the US should sit down and talk it over in order to get things straight. I have the impression that this is what the current President wants, but he is prevented from doing it by some forces. But we are ready to discuss any matter, be it missile-related issues, cyberspace or counterterrorism efforts. We are ready to do it any moment. But the US should also be ready. The time will come when the political elite in the US will be pushed by public opinion to move in this direction. We will be ready the instant our partners are ready. I strongly believe that my legacy would be to create a powerful development momentum for Russia, and make the country a resilient and balanced democracy that is able to benefit from the latest advances of the technology revolution. We will keep up our efforts to improve our political system and the judiciary. And I am certain that all this, taken together, would strengthen the unity of the Russian Federation and the unity of our people, and enable us to move forward with confidence for years to come. Thank you. See also Presidential Address to the Federal Assembly March 1, 2018
Mr Prime Minister, friends, ladies and gentlemen, During these days the entire world remembers the victims of the Holocaust. On January 27, 1945 Soviet soldiers freed the prisoners of Auschwitz. By decision of the United Nations this day has become an eternal reminder of the atrocities committed by the Nazis and their heinous crimes that cannot be justified or forgiven. This day has embodied our common memory and grief. It is deeply symbolic that Prime Minister of the State of Israel Benjamin Netanyahu is here with us today in Moscow. Thank you very much for being with us today. At the event devoted to International Holocaust Remembrance Day and the anniversary of the complete lifting of the Nazi siege of Leningrad. Our memory is a warning against any attempt to jump on the idea of global domination, to announce, build or assert one’s grandeur based on racism, ethnic or any other supremacy. Russia categorically rejects any such attempt. The history of the 20 th century shows to what extent the consequences of such essentially anti-human ideology can lead. The purposeful and mass extermination of people that the Nazis put on an assembly line does not stop horrifying us today. Needless to say, this was hell on Earth. No matter how many years pass, it is impossible to comprehend the dismal scale of these atrocities. According to the documents of the Nuremberg Trials, the Nazi machine of destruction killed 6 million Jews. There were hundreds of thousands of Soviet citizens among them. About 3 million Soviet prisoners of war perished in extermination camps. People of very different ages and ethnic origins were tortured, burned and mutilated. We mourn all victims, all those who gave up their lives to free the world from the Nazis, their barbarity and depredations. We will always remember the road to the Great Victory and will tell the next generations the full truth about these heroes. This year marks 75 years since the Sobibor concentration camp uprising, which went down in history as the most massive act of prisoner resistance. The courage and strength of the people who opposed the enemy practically with bare hands, and the unbending will of the uprising leader, the Soviet lieutenant Alexander Pechersky, are stunning. This cannot but cause admiration and amazement. These people defended their right to life. Defying death, they fought for freedom and human dignity. Doomed, but not broken, they won in the end. At the event devoted to International Holocaust Remembrance Day and the anniversary of the complete lifting of the Nazi siege of Leningrad. The Nazis created about 40,000 camps and ghettos in Europe. Children, old people, women, and physically and mentally challenged people were subjected to terror and ruthless violence. However, they did not give up. They organised underground resistance, planned escapes, resisted, and, until the last breath, remained faithful to their convictions and values, which the Nazis sought to destroy. The fight against Nazism was waged not only on the fronts, but in the hearts and minds of millions of people. In this fight, the Nazis lost long before their total military defeat. Strength of will and faith in victory helped the residents of heroic Leningrad survive, too. In January,
Hello, comrades. The most important thing for a military person – and we are very much aware of this – is the defence of our Fatherland, our people. This is not just the purpose of military service, but also the purpose of life for those who have devoted themselves to serving their people. At the same time, a soldier is truly tested for loyalty to the Fatherland in a military operation fraught with huge risks to life and health. Here, in Syria, far from home, you are doing exactly that – you are protecting our country. By helping the people of Syria to maintain their statehood, to fight off attacks by terrorists, you have inflicted a devastating blow to those who have directly, brazenly and openly threatened our country. We will never forget the sacrifices and losses incurred in the struggle against terrorism both here in Syria and in Russia. However, it will not make us fold our hands and retreat. This is not in our peoples’ nature. On the contrary, this memory will continue to motivate us to eradicate this absolute evil – terrorism – whatever face it hides behind. Yes, the threat of terrorism around the world is still very high. However, the task of combating the armed groups here in Syria, the goal that needed to be addressed with the help of the large-scale use of the armed forces, has been largely resolved – and brilliantly resolved. Congratulations! Our Armed Forces and our defence contractors have shown the growing power of the Russian Army and Navy, and the high combat capability of the various military units. Pilots, sailors, members of special forces, reconnaissance, troop-control and logistic support units, military police, medical personnel, field engineers and advisers working in the battle units of the Syrian Army have displayed the best qualities of Russian soldiers, such as courage, heroism, combat cohesion, determination, as well as excellent training and professionalism. The Homeland is proud of you. I am convinced that you will always faithfully serve the Fatherland, defend and uphold our national interests, our country and its people. Syria has been preserved as a sovereign and independent state. Refugees are returning to their homes. Favourable conditions have been created for a political settlement under the UN. The Russian Centre for the reconciliation of opposing sides in Syria continues to operate in line with international agreements. The two bases, in Tartous and Khmeimim, will continue to operate on a permanent basis. If the terrorists raise their heads again, we will deal unprecedented strikes unlike anything they have seen. In just over two years, the Russian Armed Forces and the Syrian Army have defeated the most combat-ready group of international terrorists. In this connection, I have decided to redeploy most of the Russian military contingent from the Syrian Arab Republic to Russia. You are returning victorious to your homes, your families, parents, wives, children and friends. I hereby order the Defence Minister and the General Chief of Staff to start redeploying units of the Russian army group to their permanent bases. The Homeland is waiting for you, friends. Godspeed! Thank you for your service. See also Meeting with President of Syria Bashar al-Assad December 11, 2017 Meeting with Russian and Syrian service personnel at Khmeimim Airbase December 11, 2017 Additional All news about the visit to Syria December 11, 2017
Indeed, two hours ago the Defence Minister reported that operations on the eastern and western banks of the Euphrates River have been completed with the full defeat of the terrorists. Naturally, there still may be some isolated pockets of resistance but let me repeat that on the whole, at this stage and on that territory, combat action has been completed with the full defeat of the terrorists. Now, in cooperation with other participants in this process, the Syrian Government, the countries of the region and the UN, we should naturally move to the next stage – the start of a political process, as we agreed at the trilateral meeting of the presidents of Russia, Iran and Turkey in Sochi, that is, establishing and holding the Syrian National Dialogue Congress, drafting a new Constitution and, as this process develops, holding presidential and parliamentary elections. But this is a very difficult long-term job. To get started, it is necessary to take at least the first steps – consolidate the current situation and de-escalation zones, put a complete end to the bloodshed on Syrian territory and transition to a peaceful, political settlement process. I will think about it. Not yet. See also All news about the trip to Nizhny Novgorod December 6, 2017
Mr President, friends, Welcome to Sochi. First, let me congratulate you on Syria’s results in combating terrorist groups as well as on the fact that the Syrian people, despite a very difficult ordeal, are gradually moving towards the final and inevitable defeat of the terrorists. Mr President, as you know, I will meet with my colleagues – the presidents of Turkey and Iran – here in Sochi the day after tomorrow. We have agreed to hold additional consultations with you during our meeting. Of course, the main subject on the agenda is a peaceful and lasting political settlement in Syria after the routing of the terrorists. As you know, in addition to the partners I have mentioned we are also working closely together with other countries, such as Iraq, the United States, Egypt, Saudi Arabia and Jordan. We maintain constant contact with these partners. I would like to talk with you about the basic principles of the political process and the Syrian National Dialogue Congress, the idea of which you have supported. I would like to hear your opinions on the current situation and development prospects and your views on the political process, which should ultimately be implemented under the UN auspices. We also hope that the UN will join the process at its final stage. I am glad to see you. Welcome to Russia. President of Syria Bashar al-Assad al-Assad Bashar : Thank you very much, Mr President. I am very glad to have this opportunity to meet with you two years and several weeks after Russia launched a very successful operation. Over this period, we have achieved major success both on the battlefield and on the political track. Many regions in Syria have been liberated from the terrorists, and the Syrians who had to flee from these regions can now return there. It should be acknowledged that the operation brought progress to the political settlement in Syria. And the process which was started and which Russia promoted with various efforts continues, above all, based on respect for the UN Charter, the state’s sovereignty and independence. This stance has been defended at various international platforms, including the talks in Astana. The same goes for the plans to hold the Syrian National Dialogue Conference in a few days. Today we have an excellent opportunity to discuss both the upcoming conference and the upcoming summit, and to coordinate our views on the next steps. First, I would like to take an opportunity and pass congratulations and gratitude from the Syrian people to you, Mr President, for our joint success in defending Syria’s territorial integrity and independence. We would like to extend our gratitude to those institutions of the Russian state that provided assistance – primarily, the Russian Defence Ministry that has supported us throughout this operation. Also I would like to pass our gratitude to the Russian people who remain a friendly nation to us. They have supported us all along. Thank you very much. You mentioned the Astana talks. I also think they were quite a success. Thanks to the Astana process we managed to create de-escalation zones, which allowed us to start the first real and in-depth dialogue with the opposition. Based on the outcome of this meeting, I will consult further with the leaders of the countries I just mentioned. A conversation with the Emir of Qatar is scheduled for today. Tomorrow, I am speaking with US President Donald Trump Trump Donald President of the United States of America . After that, I am speaking with the leaders of the countries in the region. As you know, the so-called Riyadh opposition group will hold a meeting in Riyadh on November 22–23. Our representative, Mr Lavrentyev, will attend the opening and closing of this meeting, as well as a news conference, as a special presidential envoy. Therefore, I believe that our meeting today is a very good opportunity to coordinate our approaches on all settlement issues. I am glad that we can do this. Bashar al- Very good. You have mentioned the completion of the military operation. I believe that terrorism is a global problem and the fight against it is, of course, far from over. As for our joint efforts against the terrorists in Syria, this military operation is nearing completion indeed. I believe that the main task now is to launch the political process. I am glad that you are ready to work with anyone who wants peace and conflict resolution.  With President of the Syrian Arab Republic Bashar al-Assad at a meeting with senior officials of the Russian Defence Ministry and the General Staff of the Russian Armed Forces. I have asked the President of Syria to attend our meeting. I want him to see those who have played the key role in saving Syria. Of course, Mr Assad knows some of you personally. He told me at our talks today that the Russian Army has saved Syria as a state. Much has been done to stabilise the situation in Syria. I hope that we will close the chapter on the fight against terrorism in Syria, although some seats of tension will remain or will flare up again. There are more than enough problems with terrorism in the world, including in the Middle East and Syria. But our main mission is almost accomplished, and I hope we will be able to say that we have accomplished it soon. We have held very substantial talks with the President of Syria today on all aspects related to normalisation, including subsequent steps on the political track. As you know, we will hold a trilateral meeting here in Sochi. However, I would like to say that conditions for a political process could not have been created without the armed forces, without your efforts and the efforts and heroism of your subordinates. This goal has been achieved thanks to the Russian Armed Forces and our Syrian friends on the battlefield. Thank you for this. Bashar al-Assad : President of Russia Vladimir Putin and I have just held talks. I have conveyed to him, and on his behalf to the Russian people, our gratitude for Russia’s efforts to save our country. I would like to highlight the contribution of the Russian Armed Forces and the sacrifices they have made to achieve this goal. I was very glad to learn that you, those of you who were directly involved in the operation and who commanded the activities of the Russian Armed Forces in Syria will be present here today. The operation barely started when I met with President Putin in Moscow two years ago. In the two years since then we can see the success that has been achieved thanks to cooperation between the Russian Aerospace Forces and the Syrian Army. Nobody can deny this success in the fight against terrorism now. Thanks to your actions, as well as the actions of the Syrian Army and our allies, many Syrians have returned home. Speaking on behalf of the Syrian people, I would like to express our gratitude for what you have accomplished. We will never forget this. Also, I would like to thank personally President Vladimir Putin, Sergei Shoigu Shoigu Sergei Secretary of the Russian Federation Security Council and Valery Gerasimov Gerasimov Valery Chief of the General Staff of Russia’s Armed Forces – First Deputy Minister of Defence for their direct involvement in this operation. Thank you very much. Geography Syria Topics Foreign policy Persons al-
Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, friends. I am glad to welcome all of you to Moscow, the capital of Russia and the venue of the first WHO Global Ministerial Conference to end TB. I would like to thank you all for accepting our invitation to visit Russia and for supporting our initiative on holding an international conference on this serious problem. I am confident that the only way we can stand up against this truly global threat is if we join forces. Despite the rapid development of diagnostic and treatment methods and progress in pharmaceuticals, TB still poses a major threat to people’s health around the world. Experts cite a
Mr Nazarbayev, colleagues, welcome to the 14 th Russia-Kazakhstan Interregional Cooperation Forum. Russia and Kazakhstan are strategic partners and allies. Our states base their relations on friendship, neighbourliness, equality and mutual respect. I am convinced that adherence to these principles will allow us to further promote cooperation across all areas. Actually, this is reflected in the joint statement on the 25 th anniversary of diplomatic relations between our countries, which Mr Nazarbayev and I will sign today. Before the forum opened, the President of Kazakhstan and I had a very detailed conversation. We discussed the key aspects of bilateral cooperation and outlined steps to further enhance Russia-Kazakhstan cooperation across all areas. I would like to reiterate what I said earlier at a meeting with fewer participants and to thank Mr Nazarbayev for his great contribution to hosting international meetings on Syria in Astana. The opportunity for an early resolution of the Syria crisis, and the achievement by the Syrians themselves of the agreements to launch the political settlement process became possible largely thanks to the Astana talks. Of course, we spoke about the main theme of this interregional forum, which is the development of human capital, and investments in improving the level and quality of life, primarily, investments in education and healthcare. We agreed to instruct the governments of our countries to continue close coordination in order to develop human capital and to actively involve the regions of Russia and Kazakhstan in this work. We noted that interregional cooperation is developing very successfully and covers a wide range of issues pertaining to socioeconomic policy and the cultural sphere. Contacts between regions of the two countries have become very intensive. For instance, this year over 20 delegations from Russian regions visited Kazakhstan. Such visits produce specific agreements aimed at expanding diverse interregional cooperation. I would like to mention that Russian and Kazakh regions are already carrying out 400 cooperation agreements. At this forum, participants will also sign a solid package of interregional documents between Bashkortostan, the Chelyabinsk, Sverdlovsk and Omsk regions of Russia and the Pavlodar, North Kazakhstan, West Kazakhstan and Kostanay regions of Kazakhstan. A comprehensive programme of Russian-Kazakh interregional cooperation for 2018–2023 has been prepared for the forum. This document is aimed at even more active involvement of regions into bilateral cooperation. Priority attention will be given to trade, economic and investment cooperation. I would like to emphasise that mutual trade has grown since the start of this year largely owing to business initiatives of Russian and Kazakh regions. In January-August, reciprocal deliveries of goods and services reached $11 billion, which is one-third more than in the relevant period of the past year. Accumulated Russian investment in Kazakhstan has exceeded $10.8 billion, and Kazakh investment in Russia is over $3 billion. It is important not to stop at that result. Therefore, we have instructed our governments and the bilateral intergovernmental commission to take additional measures to remove barriers to the movement of goods, capital and workforce. The digital economy is a new important area. Russia is paying much attention to introducing digital technology in all areas of life. I know that the Kazakh leaders are making serious efforts to expand the use of information technology in government management, finance, education and medicine. Russia and Kazakhstan regularly discuss these issues both at bilateral meetings and in the Eurasian Economic Union. The regional authorities are also quite involved in the use of digital technology. I hope that this forum will bring results and help establish interregional cooperation to introduce electronic services and products into municipal administration, modernisation of housing and utilities services, healthcare and environmental protection. Of course, education is special when it comes to developing human capital. In this regard, we agreed to expand ties between regional higher education institutions, in particular, the Chelyabinsk, South Ural, Altai and other Ural and Siberian universities. A meeting of university rectors of our two countries was held concurrently with this forum in Chelyabinsk with the participation of over 80 universities. Joint regional research centres should be established at regional universities. Such, for example, as an international research laboratory for applied biotechnology, which employs staff and students of the Belgorod Research University and the al-Farabi Kazakh National University. Other positive examples of regional inter-university cooperation include the joint project by the Ural Federal University and its partners from Kazakhstan. This is an innovative technology to reduce energy consumption during production. Its wide introduction will help not only save energy resources, but also reduce greenhouse gas emissions, which is especially important for certain regions of Kazakhstan and Russia. By the way, this also applies to Chelyabinsk, where we are today. In addition to university-to-university cooperation, it is imperative to promote interregional cooperation in the sphere of vocational education institutions. In this context, Kazan will host the world championship of vocational skills next year. We invite people from Kazakhstan's regions to take part in it. In closing, I would like to wish you success in developing interregional cooperation in various fields. I am confident that this forum will contribute to strengthening cooperation between our states. Thank you for the joint work and for your time. Mr Nazarbayev, friends. I share the opinion of the President of Kazakhstan about the forum. The agenda was busy and the plenary session and other meetings and events were substantive and held at a high level. As we have already mentioned, the forum focused on the development of human capital and the use of information and digital technology in the economy, public administration and other areas. We discussed the status and prospects for bilateral interregional cooperation in the most diverse areas. We reviewed what we should do in the future to improve our cooperation in trade, investment, industry, science and education. I also agree with what Mr Nazarbayev said about potential implementation of a major joint project on building a railway from the People’s Republic of China via Kazakhstan and Russia and further to Europe. This could be a very good impetus for developing whole industries, not to mention that in terms of logistics, this is movement in the right direction that would increase our transit status. This would encourage the development of many industries since the project could be really outstanding. In conclusion, I would like to thank Mr Nazarbayev and all our Kazakh friends for fruitful joint efforts. As the President of Kazakhstan proposed, next year we will meet in Kazakhstan. The suggested theme is very interesting and useful for the economy and the development of human relations. Thank you all.
Good afternoon, colleagues. Allow me to briefly inform you about the results of our work today. The Itinerary of today’s events in Sochi has been busy and substantive. The meetings of the CIS Heads of State Council and the Supreme Eurasian Economic Council took place in a very constructive atmosphere. There was a detailed exchange of views on the entire range of cooperation within the framework of both integration associations, and concrete plans for the future were outlined. See also CIS summit October 11, 2017 Supreme Eurasian Economic Council meeting October 11, 2017 During the CIS Heads of State Council meeting, we informed our partners about the results of Russia’s Commonwealth chairmanship this year. Following discussions in a restricted and expanded format, decisions were made on adapting the Commonwealth’s multilateral cooperation mechanisms to modern realities. In particular, there will be a redistribution of authority between the Heads of State Council and the Heads of Government Council. Now the governments will deal with a broader range of issues while the leaders will not be weighed down with routine matters and will be able to concentrate on formulating strategies and key areas of the association’s development. In addition, the CIS Executive Committee’s proposals on further streamlining the activity of the CIS Economic Council and the Foreign Ministers Council were approved. We agreed to extend Executive Committee Chairman and CIS Executive Secretary Mr Lebedev’s mandate by two more years. We hope that under his leadership, the Executive Committee will continue working efficiently to achieve the Commonwealth’s goals. We discussed in detail with our partners how to use the potential of the CIS to increase trade and investment and expand industrial and technological cooperation. We agreed to take further efforts to encourage trade, which has increased by 25 percent to reach $75 billion since the start of the year. To do this we should work more actively to harmonise norms and standards of the CIS and the Eurasian Economic Union and remove barriers to the free movement of goods and services. Cultural cooperation has special significance for our countries. We have decided to continue the practice of holding thematic years in the CIS. The Year of the Family is coming to a close. Next year, 2018, will be the Year of Culture, and 2019 – the Year of Books. The year 2020 will be devoted to the 75 th anniversary of victory in the Great Patriotic War. In addition, we have chosen the next cultural capitals of the CIS – the Azerbaijani city of Gyandzha will be succeeded by the Armenian city of Goris. Then Brest will be the CIS cultural capital, followed by Kazakhstan’s Shymkent. We have agreed to continue close coordination on foreign policy and security. The CIS states are together confronting the threat posed by the spread of terrorism and extremism, and intend to increase the exchange of information and experience between competent bodies, including in the effort to counter the laundering criminal proceeds. With this aim in view, we have endorsed today the concept for cooperation in countering the financing of terrorism and the concept for combatting corruption, as well as a number of other important documents. The CIS chairmanship will pass from Russia to Tajikistan on January 1, 2018. I am sure that our colleagues in Tajikistan will continue working effectively to develop diverse cooperation in the CIS. We sincerely wish them success and are naturally ready to help them in this work as much as we can. At the meeting of the Supreme Eurasian Economic Council, we exchanged views on the status and prospects of the Union’s development and noted the growing positive influence of integration processes on the economies of our countries. I am pleased to say that the leaders of all Union countries reaffirmed their interest in the continued comprehensive deepening of integration and supported the accelerated completion of domestic procedures to ratify the common Customs Code to make sure it comes into force on January 1, 2018. We agreed to expand cooperation in the digital economy. To that end, the Council approved the main components of implementing the Union’s digital agenda until 2025. The Group of Five made the decision to develop an interstate programme for cooperation in outer space services and in integrating existing national systems of Earth remote sensing. We invited our partners to make more active use of the resources of the Eurasian Development Bank and the Eurasian Fund for Stabilisation to finance joint industrial, agricultural and infrastructural projects. This will provide an additional boost to the diversification of national economies. Of course, we did not fail to address issues related to the Union’s cooperation with other countries and integration associations. Priority in this area will be given to deepening our cooperation with CIS member states that are so far not members of the Eurasian Economic Union. I would like to note that, as you could see, the Eurasian Economic Union’s expanded meeting was attended by a guest, President of Moldova Igor Dodon. It is noteworthy that all Union member countries support his aspiration to establish closer cooperation between the Eurasian Economic Union and Moldova. It may be recalled that the Eurasian Economic Commission has been entrusted with drafting a statute on Eurasian Economic Union observer countries. According to the President of Moldova, the overwhelming majority of his country’s citizens take a positive view of his intention to expand relations with Eurasian Economic Union countries. But that is only natural, as the main market for Moldovan goods are, of course, Eurasian Economic Union countries, primarily Russia. For our part, we – I am talking about Russia now – will build our relations with Moldova based on the extent to which Moldova itself and the people of Moldova are ready to expand this cooperation. It was noted at the meeting that the Eurasian Economic Union should continue to foster cooperation with potential partners among foreign countries. We will do all we can to facilitate this process. In 2018, the chairmanship of the Eurasian Economic Union will pass to Russia. We intend to maintain the high pace of integration efforts that has been achieved and hope for closer cooperation with our Union partners. As part of the CIS and SEEC summits, there were bilateral meetings, in particular with the Presidents of Tajikistan, Moldova, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan. My colleagues and I had substantive discussions of key issues of the bilateral and regional agenda. Overall, we are satisfied with the work that has been done. We believe that the results of today’s summits will help further deepen cooperation in the CIS and the EAEU. Thank you for your attention.
Ladies and gentlemen, It gives me great pleasure to welcome you to the Kremlin for this presentation of credentials. As ambassadors, you are entrusted with the important and responsible mission to hold talks with the Russian Government, our agencies, parliamentarians and members of the public, and to develop bilateral relations between your countries and Russia. We are interested in efficient and successful work. You head your missions in a complicated time, when the situation in the world is becoming increasingly turbulent and tense. Participants in the regular United Nations General Assembly session expressed sincere concern about the growing challenges and threats that the global community has to face. In this context, the UN remains the guarantor of stability and predictability in international affairs, and its universal nature cannot be doubted. The priority for all countries should be strict compliance with the rule of law and respect for the powers of the UN Security Council as an agency that bears the bulk of responsibility for international peace and security. Russia is committed to enhancing the UN’s effectiveness. We support the expediency of reforming it to adjust it to modern requirements. At the same time, we believe that all changes in UN work must be substantiated and based on the agreement of the majority if not all members of the international community. President of Russia received foreign ambassadors’ credentials The UN must focus on finding solid, sustainable and lasting solutions to regional conflicts. Russia will continue to contribute to these efforts, in particular in Syria. As you know, agreements on four de-escalation zones in Syria have been achieved in Astana with assistance from the guarantor countries – Russia, Iran and Turkey – and these have been supported by a great many countries. These agreements have created conditions for implementing UN Security Council Resolution 2254 through a direct dialogue between the Syrian government and the opposition and for rallying their efforts to eliminate the hotbed of terrorism as soon as possible and to restore peace and unity in Syria. The Astana process, which is underway in the capital of Kazakhstan, is designed to create favourable conditions for progress towards a political settlement at the Geneva talks. Another immediate task is to increase humanitarian deliveries and accelerate mine clearing operations in the liberated regions. Everyone who sincerely wishes peace to Syria and Syrians and who want to see refugees return to their homes should join these UN-led processes without any preconditions. We see increasing confrontation over North Korea’s nuclear missile programme. You know our position on this matter. We condemn Pyongyang’s activities that violate the UN Security Council resolution. But using increasingly militant rhetoric is not just a road to nowhere but also a highly destructive policy. All parties must show restraint and look for a peaceful solution. In a modern world, conflicts must be settled with due regard for many factors, some of them extremely delicate ones, and through compromise. The ceremony to present foreign ambassadors’ letters of credence. Speaking about the Ukrainian crisis, this approach is reflected in the Package of Measures, which was coordinated in Minsk in February 2015. This package includes all the key political and security elements of a settlement. To provide an additional impetus towards a settlement, Russia has recently advanced an initiative for a UN mission to protect OSCE observers in Donbass. We hope to be able to hold a business-like and constructive discussion of this initiative at the UN Security Council. Ladies and gentlemen, there are 20 heads of diplomatic missions here today. As per tradition, I would like to say a few words about relations with each state you represent. Russian-Spanish relations go back many centuries. This year we marked 350 years since the establishment of the first diplomatic contacts between our states. Our people are bound together by the feelings of mutual sympathy and respect. There is potential for developing Russian-Spanish cooperation in many areas despite an adverse political situation. Everyone is talking about the Catalonian referendum now. Frankly, we are seriously concerned about Spain, even though this is an internal affair of the Kingdom of Spain. We hope it will overcome this crisis. I believe that the opening of the Embassy of Grenada in Moscow, as well as the recent signing of the agreement on visa-free entry for citizens of both countries, will promote cooperation with Grenada. In the current half-year, Grenada chairs the Caribbean Community. We attach great importance to maintaining ties with this and other integration associations of the Caribbean region. We are satisfied with the high level of interaction with Laos, an important partner of Russia in Southeast Asia. It is based on the Declaration on Strategic Partnership, signed in 2011. The Prime Minister of Laos recently made a visit to our country. The agreements and contracts signed during his visit will undoubtedly contribute to deepening bilateral cooperation. The ceremony to present foreign ambassadors’ letters of credence. This year marks the 25 th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations with the Republic of Croatia. We look forward to welcoming President of Croatia Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic to Russia in the middle of this month . We expect to reach new agreements in the political, economic and humanitarian spheres during the talks, including the decision to open the Russian Centre of Science and Culture in Zagreb. We have traditionally friendly ties with the Republic of Zambia. There are good prospects for increasing cooperation in trade, investment, military technology and energy. Russia will provide practical assistance to Zambia in the construction of the Centre for Nuclear Science and Technology. We are open to broadening cooperation with the Republic of Moldova on a pragmatic and mutually advantageous basis, in the spirit of the agreements reached during this year's visits to Russia by President of Moldova Igor Dodon. We welcome Moldova's interest in cooperation with Eurasian integration associations. We will further contribute to the political solution of the Transnistrian problem. We attach great importance to strengthening strategic partnership with Argentina. We are ready to intensify cooperation in energy, industry, agriculture, culture and the humanitarian field. And of course, we will cooperate closely during Argentina’s presidency of the G20 next year. Our relations with the Republic of Cyprus are gaining momentum. They are based on the cultural and spiritual kinship of our peoples. I am confident that during the upcoming visit of President Nicos Anastasiades to Russia in October, important bilateral documents in a variety of areas will be adopted. Russia has consistently called for a comprehensive, just and viable solution to the Cypriot problem in line with the United Nations Security Council resolutions. Presentation of foreign ambassadors’ letters of credence.
Mr Moon Jae-in, Mr Battulga, Mr Shinzo Abe, esteemed moderators, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to welcome all the participants and guests of the third Eastern Economic Forum in Vladivostok. This year, we have guests from over 60 countries. I am grateful to all of you for your interest in the Russian Far East, its present and future. As we were waiting for this session to open, we noted that the interest in this forum has been growing year in and year out. I am pleased to hear that, and I think that this is very important for us. Dynamic growth and renewal of this region are among our unconditional priorities. It is an essential part of our strategy to improve Russia’s competitiveness, its economy, and human capital. We have concentrated considerable financial and organisational resources in the Russian Far East over the past several years. Preparations for the APEC summit in Vladivostok in 2012 gave a major boost to this macroregion. This forum helped re-open the Russian Far East to the entire world, including businesses from the Asia-Pacific region. The Eastern Economic Forum, where we have gathered now, serves to enrich this spirit of friendliness and openness. We are developing special innovative approaches to administering Russia’s Far East. Over the past four years, 19 federal laws have been adopted that have laid a new foundation for our efforts to lift the region. Our plans include the further development of the Far East, improving the legal framework, codifying and systematising it even better to make sure that the laws and, most importantly, law enforcement practice, are convenient and clear for our citizens, for investors, and businesses, as well as the federal and municipal authorities. It is necessary to do so to improve the effectiveness of special mechanisms that were launched in the Russian Far East. I am referring to the priority development territories and the Free Port of Vladivostok. They opened up new opportunities for Russian and foreign investors in this macroregion, which made it possible to launch projects faster and cut the costs involved in their implementation. The way you asked the question is, should we worry about this situation and can we continue to invest? My answer to both questions is “Yes.” We should be worried, and how can we help being worried if we see such tensions in the region? But we should continue investing. Because if you stop working in the region economically as well, the situation will not improve, but will only grow worse. Like my colleague from the Republic of Korea, I am sure that things will not come to a large-scale conflict, especially with the use of weapons of mass destruction. All the opposing sides will show enough common sense and awareness of their responsibility to the people who live in this region, and we will be able to solve the problem by diplomatic means, as the President of Korea said. I have also discussed it with the Prime Minister of Japan repeatedly and most recently, two days ago, we spoke about it again over the phone. And he also holds the view that it is necessary to look for diplomatic means. Incidentally, I should remind you that we practically agreed on everything in 2005. Agreements were reached whereby North Korea assumed certain obligations to curtail its nuclear missile programme and all the other parties to the process promised to contribute to this end, they spoke of the need to restore normal good relations between North and South and about possible trilateral Russia, North and South Korea projects. Then, unfortunately, someone demanded from North Korea something I think it had not promised and the situation gradually deteriorated to its present level. We should be worried, but at the same time we should work to resolve the problem. And we can and must achieve positive results. You are a citizen of the United States. Here is the head of government and the President of the countries that are the closest US allies in the region and the world but you are addressing this question to me. I will try to answer. We see the desire of the current administration to reduce tensions. We understand that nobody wants escalation. Strange as it may sound, I think, while that the administration is more than a few months old, it still has not been much time. We have to see how the situation develops. This is what I would like to say here and what I have said more than once. I believe both leaders who are present here confirmed that there is no other solution of the issue but a diplomatic one. This is not an easy, simple or fast way of settling the problem but it is the only correct one. It is necessary to start talks and convince every party, including North Korea, that this is the best way of settling the issue for it as well. It is important to gradually involve North Korea in cooperation in the region. Russia has specific proposals – a joint railway linking the Trans-Siberian Railway and Korean railways though North Korea, pipelines, developing its ports and so on. We have things to offer and to work on. Building up a military atmosphere, a hysteria, is, in my opinion, counter-productive. It will not get us anywhere. Everything that is taking place is of course a provocation on the part of North Korea. This is quite obvious. They are provoking the situation. But if they are doing it, believe me, they are not that stupid, so they count on a corresponding reaction from the partners and are trying to elicit such a reaction. But why are you playing up to them? Did you ever think about it? That is number one. Number two, they will not stop. I have already said at a recent press conference in China after the BRICS summit and I can repeat it, they know full well how the situation developed, for example, in Iraq when, under the pretext – which is now obvious to everyone – under the specious pretext of searching for weapons of mass destruction a country and its leadership were destroyed, and even the family members and children were shot dead. They are aware of all this and they see possession of nuclear weapons and missiles as the only way to defend themselves. Do you believe they will give it all up? We should say that we follow the path of cooperation, are ready to ensure their security, to formulate the conditions of work that they would understand and consider acceptable. I assure you, if this path is followed, the situation in the region as a whole, the relations between North and South will be transformed into cooperation and we can expect further steps. But it is impossible to scare them. What do we propose to them? Look, We must make the most of our competitive advantages. What are they? Highly educated citizens and good traditions of development in high-tech spheres. We are thinking about developing digital technology. We have adopted a relevant plan and development strategy. The Government adopted this document this year and we will consistently follow it. The future of any economy – and the Russian economy is no exception – lies in new digital technology, artificial intellect and so on – everything that belongs to the new technological mode. We will move in this direction. Needless to say, it would be strange and absurd not to use what we have and what is also our competitive advantage – huge natural resources and logistics potential. As you rightly noted, we are a Eurasian power . This is a unique opportunity to develop all our territories. My colleagues have spoken here, You have already named them. This is the region’s geographic location and its enormous riches, including logistics opportunities. Our colleagues here said earlier that shipping, for example, along our railways is two to three times more cost-effective than by sea, and as a business person, you know that this is via the Suez Canal. It is far away. There is also high reliability, no piracy, etc. Russia has long been present here but unfortunately, it has paid little attention to developing these territories. These are enormous territories. We developed Eastern Siberia. Now the time has come and there is an opportunity to do this. By the way, I would like to draw your attention to this. We have gone through serious economic difficulties in recent years and there was the general crisis of 2008. We have begun to emerge from it step by step and we encountered crisis phenomena related to falling prices for our basic export commodities, including oil, and we had our share of difficulties, which even led to GDP drop below zero. To go back to your previous question, this year we planned to achieve growth of 0.5 to 0.8 percent. Our GDP previously grew by 2.1 percent. Industrial production was up 2.6 percent. Agriculture grew by 3.4 percent . Inflation is at an all-time low, 3.5 percent. The Russian economy has never seen such inflation before. The Central Bank’s foreign exchange reserves are growing. We have very low unemployment, less than 5 percent. In other words, this is an array of macroeconomic conditions for the development of our entire economy, including such an important part of it as the Russian Far East. As I said earlier, trade turnover is growing. Discounting oil and gas, it is up 25 percent. These are impressive, very good indicators. However, during this time, even in a crisis, the Russian Far East has demonstrated higher-than-average growth rates. I said that industrial production as a whole was up 2.6 percent but here it increased by about 6 percent, over 5 percent. This means that with an efficient approach, by concentrating financial, administrative and regulatory resources and responding to the needs of business in general and investors in particular , this region can demonstrate and is actually demonstrating higher growth rates. This is the wave of the future for Russia as a whole. As I said earlier in my remarks, we will continue to give priority to this region. Yes, you are absolutely right. It is to the credit of the people who live here, the result of the Government’s efforts in recent years. We discussed this here. Accordingly, the investments in this region should be commensurate with the contribution the region is making to the development of the entire Russian economy. We have in mind specific steps to raise attention on the part of the Government of the Russian Federation. Besides, you have said yourself that the Far East is part of a fast-growing region of the world. Take for example Japan, which you have mentioned, it is a high-tech country, South Korea and China are developing rapidly, and India. Just recently – I have mentioned the logistics opportunities – we tested the movement of container cargo from India in the South- I spoke about this in my earlier remarks but of course, I will reiterate some of the key points. We are creating and will continue to create favourable conditions for business in terms of administrative procedures, simplified customs procedures and opportunities to visit here. By the way, to reiterate, we have introduced a visa-free entry to the Free Port of Vladivostok for people who would like to work here. Priority development territories that I mentioned. Seventeen PDTs have been created, with an array of tax breaks at various levels of the tax system. I have just announced additional tax exemptions here. We will not only create such conditions but will also consider ways of ensuring that living here is also interesting. In this respect, I believe that our plans to establish a cultural cluster here are important for both local residents and those who come here. We have mentioned the Mariinsky Theatre and I am grateful to Maestro Gergiyev for being so actively involved in this effort. There will be a branch of the Mariinsky Theatre here; in fact, it is already up and running. There will also be affiliates of the Hermitage, the Russian Museum and the Tretyakov Gallery. It is essential that people who want to live and work here live in a favorable, interesting environment. We will work to bring all of this about. And then, it is also very important that the proposed cooperation projects are interesting. A few years ago, we laid the groundwork for a new Russian space centre here and it is already in operation now; the first rocket launches have been performed here. Within the next few years, it will become Russia’s first full-scale civil cosmodrome that will be used to study outer space, make manned flights, and so forth. By the way, we are also planning to do this with the United States – that is, if wise guys from various US agencies do not stand in the way. There is interest here, including interest in studying Mars together with our American partners by 2030. We will continue to work in the energy sphere. I see nothing wrong with that; it is a very important area. All those present here are extremely interested in this. Finally, we have the very important sector of shipbuilding. We are developing, and my colleague on the right – the President of Korea – has said that we are not only placing orders but together with our Korean friends, we are in effect building a new enterprise – the Zvezda shipyard in the Far East, which, by the way, I intend to visit tomorrow. It is a specialised sector and line of cooperation. These are support vessels and drilling platforms. This is what we need and what our partners need, and this does not involve tough competition, but on the contrary, a synergy of efforts will produce a good result because everyone is interested in receiving these energy resources. Shipbuilding is a high-tech sector. The aircraft industry is developing here, and, actually, not only combat aircraft. The Su jets that are known all over the world and have proven themselves in combat, including the Su-35, which are effectively working against terrorists in Syria, are manufactured here in the Far East. This is also where we are making our most advanced Superjet-100 passenger aircraft that is selling well on international markets, primarily in Asia. We will continue to develop this sector. Education. We are at Far Eastern Federal University. It has its specific competitive edge. What is it? It is region’s unique location that makes it possible to work in space research, power engineering, shipbuilding and aircraft making. The groundwork is in place. Finally, marine biology. We will continue to develop this area, which is traditionally well developed at the Russian Academy of Sciences. All of this taken together should, in my opinion , create favourable conditions for cooperation. The Prime Minister of Japan said that a special ministry was created in the Japanese Government that is responsible for cooperation with Russia. Yesterday, at a meeting with our Chinese friends, I told the Chinese Deputy Prime Minister that I have signed an executive order awarding him the Order of Friendship. This is no accident. Over the past two years, the region received 450 billion roubles in foreign investment. This is about $9 billion . Our Chinese friends account for 80 percent of this investment. I You are quite right. I am sorry for interrupting you but about 300 Japanese companies are already operating in Russia, not to mention our Chinese friends. I have also mentioned the scale of operations, 600 companies from the Republic of Korea. We have a special relationship with Mongolia in the economic sphere. There are large joint ventures that we inherited from the Soviet days – some of the largest in the world – and there is a joint railway line. So on the whole, we are satisfied with the way our contacts are progressing. Nevertheless, we believe that this is not enough, of course, and does not measure up to our potential. This is precisely what we should all look toward. The President of Korea mentioned one such possible project – a regional energy ring. It is a large-scale, interesting, We have mentioned one of these, the Asian Energy Ring, which covers many countries and will involve them in joint work. This could be trilateral cooperation, if we are talking about Korea. If we could reach an agreement with North Korea and the Republic of Korea to connect the Korean Railway and the Trans-Siberian Railway, and we are also considering a bridge between Sakhalin and Hokkaido, this would combine to produce a project on a planetary scale, which can lead to significant changes in infrastructure, power generation and the high-tech sphere. Are you not impressed by what the Prime Minister of Japan said about our joint projects in medicine? I believe that they are extremely interesting, and we would be happy to invite our partners from any regional country to join these projects. This is why we have regular meetings with those who are already working in Russia. I think that you should also talk to those who succeed on the Russian market, and there are many of them. Yesterday I met with representatives of companies that are operating in Russia, including in the Russian Far East. They represent companies from 60 countries. They spoke about the problems they encounter here. I was glad to see that nothing contradicted our efforts to improve the business climate, but there are some objective issues, such as inadequate infrastructure, which is understandable. Our partners – they are sitting here left and right of me – are ready to work together with us to develop infrastructure. The lack of a developed infrastructure is the result of a policy that was pursued here for decades, if not centuries. Historically, Vladivostok was a fortress, a military city, and hence it was not developed. It did not even have a normal airport. We will gradually improve this situation. We also need to improve the legal framework. I spoke about this today, including in my opening remarks. We need to ensure funding, as we have said. We are working jointly with the Russian Direct Investment Fund and our Japanese and Korean partners to create financial institutions and funds for this purpose. We have set up two such funds with our Korean partners. They must start operating. Of course, politically motivated economic restrictions must be abandoned. They are detrimental to the interests of all sides. Those who want to cooperate must have direct access to each other. We should remove visa restrictions, lift them. As I have said, we have introduced visa-free entry to the Vladivostok port. In short, we need to take effort, and I mean that both sides should do this. Our companies also face certain restrictions in our neighbours’ markets. Russian business people, who attended a meeting with the leadership of the Russian Far Eastern regions yesterday, told me this. This must be a two-way street. In this context, we will support regional preferential agreements and unions, but only those that do not run counter to the principles and regulations of the World Trade Organisation and that create additional conditions for joint operation within this framework. No, my thesis concerned Leningrad Region’s resource base. I worked in St Petersburg then, and my research focused on the logistics of the resource base. In principle, this work has much in common with any region. I believe that the groundwork done in this sphere can be useful if we adjust it to real life. At any rate, it has helped me in my work so far. That thesis concerned strategic planning for replenishing a region’s resource base. For my part, I would like Russia’s economy as a whole and the economy of the Russian Far East to be modern, flexible and automatically adjustable to rapid changes in the world, to fit in, in the easiest possible way, with the next technological system, to be managed by modern methods and means, and managed effectively. All this should facilitate the development of our cooperation with other countries and countries in the Asia Pacific region. As a whole, this would create conditions for a durable, stable peace and cooperation. This is exactly the goal that I, along with all those in Russia who work to develop the Russian Far East have set ourselves. I am confident that much, at any rate, quite a lot of what we are dreaming of, will become reality. And we would like to thank our moderator. Thank you very much. Geography Primorye Territory Topics Foreign policy Regions Persons Abe Shinzo Battulga Khaltmaagiin Moon Jae-
Let us start with your questions, please. Let me remind you that BRICS emerged at Russia’s initiative back in 2005 when we first brought to the same table representatives of the People’s Republic of China, India and Russia. This is how three countries started working together, and later expanded to five countries. There is no doubt that BRICS has great prospects. At its core is the convergence of interests in a number of areas, not some kind of ideological principles. This primarily has to do with economic structure and our common commitment to make the global economy more fair and noble, so to speak. Overall, we succeeded in coordinating our positions on a number of major, fundamental issues over the past years. You may have noticed that BRICS countries regularly meet not only at specialised summits like the one here in the People’s Republic of China, but also on the sidelines of various international events before the start of those events. For example, BRICS leaders regularly meet ahead of G20 meetings. Please note that the new Development Bank has been established and is already functioning. You must have also noted that Russia is already receiving funding for three projects. One has to do with water purification systems in the Volga basin, another with the development of Russia’s judicial system, primarily new buildings, facilities and the informatisation of the judicial system of Russia. There are other interesting projects, not as large perhaps, but still important for our country. These are just the first steps. The pool of reserve currencies is beginning to work. We promote contacts between business leaders. The Business Council grows more active, and Russian initiatives are gaining support among others. You may have heard about women's entrepreneurship as well. In my opinion, this is an important thing – the right thing. Almost all countries make efforts to support women's entrepreneurship. There are other important, interesting and promising undertakings. I am confident that this association will work effectively in the future. The Chinese Presidency has managed to preserve all that has been built up so far, including our joint work in Russia, in Ufa, and create new impulses. This was a successful summit, including the involvement of the ‘outreach’ countries’ leaders – those states that represent emerging markets from various regions of the world. I would like to congratulate our Chinese friends on the absolute success of this major international event. If I talk in detail about all these meetings and telephone conversations, we will not have enough time. You have seen these bilateral meetings. This visit began with a bilateral meeting with the Chairman of the People's Republic of China – basically, that was part of a separate working visit. As for the BRICS countries, I had meetings with the Prime Minister of India and the President of South Africa. Those primarily dealt with bilateral relations. With each of these countries, we have an extensive agenda, including very diverse economic ties. Regarding the countries invited to this year’s BRICS summit within the outreach format, a meeting was held with Thailand’s Prime Minister. This is a fast-growing economy and we are expanding our economic interaction with this country. As you may know, we have doubled the purchase of natural rubber and increased the purchase of vegetables and fruit by 30–40 percent. We are interested in supplying our products, including high technology ones, to Thailand’s markets. That is what we discussed. As for Mexico, we have our interest there too, direct interests of our companies. Lukoil, for instance, is going to implement four projects in the Gulf of Mexico, three of them with French partners, and one on its own. We are also doing well on the Mexican market selling the Superjet-100 aircraft. Speaking of Egypt, you know about our far-reaching historical ties and relations. The relations between Russia and Egypt are on the rise. President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi extended an invitation to visit his country, and I will be happy to do so at the right time. Speaking of air transportation services, we would like to resume flights to Egypt in full. But we agreed that the work of our relevant special services and transport agencies responsible for flight safety should continue, and we must be absolutely sure that the safety of our citizens is guaranteed. We see that our Egyptian friends are doing their best to ensure this safety. Relevant agencies are interacting with each other and working out some issues. I expect us to solve this task shortly. Regarding telephone conversations, both of them – with Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and the President of the Republic of Korea – were focused on North Korea’s nuclear tests. We have agreed to continue discussing this matter when we meet in person. Tomorrow, both the South Korean President and the Japanese Prime Minister will arrive in Vladivostok for the Eastern Economic Forum, and we will talk about this more. Yes, The thing is that we have agreed with our partners that Russia and the United States should have parity in terms of personnel or diplomats in their missions in each other’s country. I believe there were 1,300 American diplomats working in Russia and 455 Russian diplomats in the United States. We have balanced the figure. I would like you to take note of the fact that this figure, 455 Russian diplomats working in the United States, also includes the 155 Russians working at the United Nations. Strictly speaking, they are not diplomats accredited at the US Department of State but diplomats working at an international organisation. When the United States wanted the UN to be headquartered in New York, it pledged to properly ensure its operation. So strictly speaking, the number of American diplomats in Moscow should be not 455 but 155 fewer, if we are talking about parity. So, we reserve the right to take a new decision on the number of American diplomats in Moscow. We will not do this immediately but will see how things develop. The Americans had the right to reduce the number of our diplomatic offices. It is another matter altogether that they have done this in way that was absolutely uncivil. This does not do reflect well on our American partners. It is difficult to talk to people who confuse Austria and Australia. But there is nothing we can do about this; this is the level of political culture among part of the American establishment. As for the American people, America is truly a great nation if the Americans can put up with so many politically uncivilised people. Excuse me, but, with regard to the buildings and structures, this is unprecedented. As a graduate of the St Petersburg University law department, I, or any other lawyer for that matter, This is the simplest question today. I discussed this with my colleagues in private, but I do not think there is any need to conceal anything here. I will repeat what I said in private and official conversations, and, in fact, what everyone should be aware of and anyone with common sense should understand. Everyone remembers well what happened to Iraq and Saddam Hussein. Hussein abandoned the production of weapons of mass destruction. Nonetheless, under the pretext of searching for these weapons, Saddam Hussein himself and his family were killed during the well-known military operation. Even children died back then. His grandson, I believe, was shot to death. The country was destroyed, and Saddam Hussein was hanged. Listen, everyone is aware of it and everyone remembers it. North Koreans are also aware of it and remember it. Do you think that following the adoption of some sanctions, North Korea will abandon its course on creating weapons of mass destruction? Russia condemns these exercises on the part of North Korea. We believe they are provocative in nature. However, we cannot forget about what I just said about Iraq, and what happened later in Libya. Certainly, the North Koreans will not forget it. Sanctions of any kind are useless and ineffective in this case. As I said to one of my colleagues yesterday, they will eat grass, but they will not abandon this programme unless they feel safe. What can ensure security? The restoration of international law. We need to advance towards dialogue between all parties concerned. It is important for all participants in this process, including North Korea, not to have any thoughts about the threat of being destroyed; on the contrary, all sides to the conflict should cooperate. In this environment, in this situation, whipping up military hysteria is absolutely pointless; it is a dead end. Besides, North Korea has not only medium-range missiles and nuclear weapons, we know they have that, but they also have long-range artillery and multiple rocket launchers with a range of up to 60 kilometres. It is pointless to use missile defence systems against these weapons. There are no weapons in the world that can counteract long-range artillery or multiple rocket launchers. And they can be located in such a way that they are virtually impossible to find. In this context, military hysteria will do no good, but may lead to a global, planet-wide disaster and enormous casualties. Diplomacy is the only way to solve the North Korean nuclear problem. True, it does not make sense to put us on the list alongside North Korea and then ask us to help with sanctions against it. But it is being done by people who confuse Austria and Australia and then ask their President to persuade Russia to toughen sanctions. But that is not the point, we are not going to pout, hold a grudge or laugh at anyone. Our position on this issue, as well as on all other issues, is based on principles. The point is not that we have been put on the same list with North Korea, which is absolutely absurd. I already said why I think that sanctions have reached their limit and are completely ineffective. There is also the humanitarian side to this issue. No matter which option we choose to influence North Korea, its leaders will not change their policy, whereas the suffering of millions could increase many times over. Regarding Russia, there is nothing to say here. Absolutely nothing, because our trade is almost zero. I asked the Energy Minister, who told me that we only send them 40,000 tonnes of oil and petrochemicals per quarter. As a reminder, Russia exports over 400 million tonnes of oil and petrochemicals to the global market, so 40,000 tonnes a quarter is as good as nothing. Moreover, none of our large vertically integrated companies exports anything to North Korea. This is the first thing I wanted to say. The second issue concerns the North Korean workforce. Indeed, we have some 30,000 North Korean workers in Russia. Is this a lot? No, this is perishably few. Should we leave these people without a means of subsistence? Besides, the Russian Far East needs more hands. Therefore, there is nothing to talk about. As the Foreign Ministry has said, the usefulness of sanctions has been exhausted. Of course, we are willing to discuss details, but we need to consider them first. We will work on this. We are cooperating with all those involved in this process. Actually, Russia co-authored a relevant resolution, at least it became a co-author during the debates on this resolution, which has been adopted and came into force. We are complying with this resolution in full. This is impossible to do via the General Assembly, because UN peacekeepers cannot function other than pursuant to Security Council resolutions. But that is not the point. You are saying that someone wants to push something through. In fact, I do not see anything wrong with that. I have already said many times that I support the idea of arming the OSCE mission, but the OSCE itself refuses to arm its field personnel, since it has neither the relevant people nor the experience of such work. In this context, I believe that the presence of UN peacekeepers, not even peacekeepers, but those who provide security for the OSCE mission, is quite appropriate and I do not see anything wrong with that; on the contrary, I believe that this would help resolve the situation in southeastern Ukraine. Of course, we can talk only about ensuring the security of the OSCE staff. This is my first point. The second point is that, in this regard, these forces should be located on the demarcation line only and on no other territories. Thirdly, this issue should be resolved only after disengaging the parties and removing the heavy equipment. This cannot be resolved without direct contact with representatives of the self-proclaimed Donetsk People's Republic and Lugansk People's Republic. I believe that if all this is done, it would definitely benefit resolving the situation in southeastern Ukraine. We will consider this as instructions to the Foreign Ministry to submit a relevant resolution to the Security Council. It is the sovereign decision of the United States whom to sell arms to or whom to supply them to free of charge. They decide what countries will be recipients of such aid. We are unable to influence this process in any way. However, As for terrorism in general, it is a complex global problem. It concerns not only Syria, but also many other countries in the region, and not only that region. The main problem in this regard is that the radical groups are reenergised constantly due to poverty and a low level of education, which are a breeding ground for radicalism and terrorism. That is why we meet at events such as BRICS and G20 summits to address these global challenges by eliminating the root causes of the threat of growing terrorism and radicalism. As for Syria and military operations, yes, the situation there has turned around for government troops. You know that the territory controlled by the government troops has increased several-fold in the past year and a half or two, and this process is gaining momentum. Can we say that we have done away with ISIS, Jabhat al-Nusra and other terrorist groups forever? It is probably too early to say so, but it is obvious that the situation is changing drastically in Syria. I hope that our partners will bring the operation in Iraq to an end. Deir ez-Zor is, in fact, a military rather than a political stronghold of the radical opposition – radical in the worst sense of the word, ISIS opposition. Once the operation in Deir ez-Zor is completed, it will mean that the terrorists have been dealt a very serious defeat, and the government forces and Assad’s government have gained undeniable advantages. It will be necessary to take the next step in strengthening the ceasefire regime, strengthening the de-escalation zones and establishing a political process. Alongside the political process, it will be necessary to restore the economy and the social sphere. That is an enormous job, and without the help of the international community, it will be difficult for the Syrian authorities to tackle these challenges. By the way, we also spoke about this during the talks at this summit, on the sidelines and at bilateral meetings. Practically all my colleagues agree with this and are ready to contribute to improving the humanitarian situation in Syria. We have many directors; I cannot do it for each one. Look, in culture, just like in other areas, the expenditure of public funds is constantly monitored by law enforcement agencies. As far as I remember, maybe things have already changed, the deputy director of the Hermitage museum is under investigation, and so is the Deputy Minister of Culture. So what, now everyone needs to be released because they work in culture? This would seem strange. Serebrennikov received state funding. This suggests he did not face any censorship, or pressure, anything, I mean, the government would have simply not given him money, and that would be that, if they wanted to limit his creativity. What does creative activity have to do with this anyway? Yes, I know, attitudes differ to various people’s work; Serebrennikov’s work is no exception. This is simply a Look, I have said this many times and I can say it again – what I will say now is very important. As soon as an election campaign begins in Russia, everyone stops working. I have first-hand experience with this. Everyone starts thinking about what would happen after the elections, which jobs would go to whom, and so on. People must do their job now, without relaxing attention to the job at hand even for a minute. Therefore, I am sure that those who plan to take part in the next presidential election in Russia will announce their decision within the time stipulated by the law. No, you are wrong. Both Russian and Chinese agencies and companies concerned, as well as partners from other countries, are analysing this matter. You have said that the project also includes the motorway and marine components, which is true. Look, the road across Kazakhstan is almost finished. We need to accelerate our part of the work. Also, a road is being built from China. As for railway routes, there are several options for China, and it can choose the route via Kazakhstan and then go southeast towards Iran, or possibly continue it across Russia. As you know, China plans to contribute to the construction of a fast train line from Moscow to Kazan. We discussed the possibility of building a high-speed passenger and freight railway line across Russia during the Chinese President’s previous visit to Russia. If we implement this project, trains will be able to move along this route at some 200 kilometres per hour. Freight trains will be a bit slower, but cargos will be delivered from Asia, or more precisely China, to, say, Germany within three of four days. These projects are very interesting and promising, but we need to work on them some more. There is nothing in this that should be kept secret from the general public, but we do need additional expert analysis and feasibility studies. As you may know, we are actively discussing the possibility of cooperation on the Northern Sea Route. This is fully in keeping with our common programmes; there are no contradictions whatsoever. We are also considering and implementing several other routes, for example, the North-South route. The Prime Minister of India and I have announced that the first container loads from Mumbai have reached St Petersburg via Iran and Azerbaijan, and returned. We test all options in practice. We are working on them on a daily basis. We will see which is more effective during the preliminary trial runs and will choose the best options. I will start with the last question. Regarding Myanmar, I think that after our bilateral meeting with the President of Egypt the press service was supposed to issue a statement on Russia’s shared position with Egypt on the ongoing developments there. We oppose any kind of violence and call on the government of that country to take the situation under its control. As for the opinion expressed by citizens of Russia on Russian foreign policy, any person has the right to his or her personal opinion regardless of the position he or she holds. This applies to the heads of regions as well. Let me assure you that this should not be viewed as a rebellion of any kind by the Chechen leadership. Everything is fine, no need to worry. Now, about the President of the United States. I think that it would be inappropriate for us to discuss how the situation in the US could play out on the domestic front. This is none of our business, and something the United States has to deal with on its own. As for whether I am disappointed or not, your question is very naïve. After all, he is not my bride, and I am not his bride or fiancé. We hold public offices, and each country has its own interests. Trump is guided in his activities by his country’s national interests, and I am guided by my country’s interests. I do hope that we will be able, as the current President of the United States said, to find compromises in resolving bilateral and international issues so that they can be settled in the interests of the American and Russian people, and in the interests of many other countries, taking into account the special responsibility for international security that lies on our two countries. Never heard about this. Good luck to her. It is not for me to decide who would be a better President for the Russian people. The choice is ultimately made through elections. But the law allows anyone to stand for office if done in accordance with and within the framework of the law. Ksenia Sobchak is no exception to this rule. I have always respected her father, and I still respect him. I believe that he was an outstanding figure in modern Russian history. This is no exaggeration. I am being completely honest about this. He was also a perfectly decent person who played a big role in my life. But such personal considerations carry no weight when it comes to presidential elections. Everything will depend on Ksenia’s platform, if she decides to run, and on how she will organise her election campaign. Her success or defeat will depend on this. As for her plans to run for president, I have never heard about them. I am sure that there can be, and definitely will be, other candidates. I have held discussions on this issue both with Rosneft and with Sistema CEOs – Sechin and Yevtushenkov. I heard what they had to say on this matter. I think it would be inappropriate for me to indicate my position on this matter publicly, but I do hope that it will be settled out of court. I believe that this would benefit both companies and the Russian economy as a whole. I cannot be perfectly sure what turn this case will take because I have never issued any direct instructions and believe that it would be counterproductive to do so. All the best and thank you. See also BRICS Summit September 4, 2017 Geography People's
Colleagues, friends, To begin with, just like the other participants in this meeting, I would like to express gratitude to President Xi Jinping for bringing us together at this wonderful place where he had worked for many years to contribute to the development of this city and region. I believe that all of us have enjoyed visiting yet another wonderful province in China, which has been developing so rapidly and looks so wonderful. Relations between the BRICS countries have developed to the point of comprehensive partnership over the past few years. We have been working together to find answers to the biggest threats and challenges to peace and stability. Our countries come together to address vital socioeconomic issues, or more precisely, to modernise national industries, develop high technologies, promote competition and improve the living standards of our people. It is gratifying that these issues have added to the priorities of China’s chairmanship this year. I would like to thank our Chinese friends for their hard work to diversify and build up practical cooperation between the BRICS countries and for their commitment to the principles of continuity and sustainability in the work of all BRICS agencies. I am convinced that the implementation of the initiatives put forth by our Chinese colleagues will contribute to the further development of cooperation within BRICS. Colleagues, one of the key items on the agenda of today’s meeting has to do with adding momentum to the operations of the New Development Bank . A number of major investment projects have been prepared for the NDB, and three of them will shortly be launched in the Russian Federation. These projects consist of initiatives designed to improve the judiciary, build a motorway near Ufa, which by the way hosted the BRICS Summit two years ago, as well as modernise water systems in cities along the Volga River. I believe in the importance of this year’s decision to establish a technical assistance fund for preparing projects within the NDB. The NDB’s immediate tasks include obtaining an international credit rating, which will enable it to issue securities in the five participating countries. In addition, there is also a need to move forward with lending in the national currencies of the BRICS countries. Efforts to promote the BRICS contingent reserve arrangement and step up sharing of macroeconomic information have also gained considerable momentum, which is also important. We need to fast-track agreements to establish a BRICS bond fund and promote the integration of our capital markets. We are grateful to our Chinese colleagues for preparing a detailed report on the progress achieved by our countries in implementing the BRICS economic partnership strategy that was adopted during Russia’s BRICS Presidency in 2015. It is time to adapt the strategy to today’s economic realities and set new and ambitious goals. We believe that these efforts should be aimed at promoting barrier-free online trade, as has already been mentioned by our colleagues, supporting SMEs, and enhancing the efficiency of public-private partnerships. The five BRICS countries should also step up their energy dialogue. To this effect, Russia proposes creating a BRICS platform for energy research, which could help promote industry, analytical, academic exchanges, and data sharing. It would also be advisable to develop joint measures for ensuring fair competition across the BRICS space. We hope that our partners will also support Russia’s initiatives on female entrepreneurship. Our countries could be effective in working together on space exploration. For example, we could agree on creating a remote sensing satellite system in order to monitor climate change, protect the environment and provide natural disaster response. Cooperation between the BRICS countries in healthcare is certainly useful. We need to create a firm legal framework within BRICS on international information security and consider the possibility of launching cooperation between our media, including the creation of a BRICS television network to promote objective coverage of our activities. We should continue to strengthen our cultural ties and redouble efforts to implement the agreement on cooperation in culture and sports, as Mr Zuma has said. This agreement was signed on the sidelines of our summit in Ufa. I am pleased that a Russian film won the Best Director Award at the BRICS film festival. This is a film about the heroism of our people during the Great Patriotic War, during World War II. We will be happy to see performers from the BRICS countries at popular international music contests that are held in Russia. Another major achievement of our five countries is the creation of the BRICS Network University, which unites over 50 leading universities from our countries. President Xi Jinping has pointed out positive trends in the South African economy. In conclusion, I would like to say in this connection that Russia is deepening cooperation with its BRICS partners alongside its efforts to overcome an economic crisis. Our economy has resumed growth. It is not as impressive as in India or China, yet we are satisfied to report economic growth of over 2 percent. We have brought down inflation to a record low of 3.5 percent, and expect the inflation rate to be 3.7–3.8 percent by the end of the year. Investment in fixed assets, both internal and external investment, has increased by some 4 percent. We can also report the growth of our trade, which reached 25 percent in the first half of the year, excluding the oil and gas sector. The unemployment level is at a historical low of some 5 percent. The Central Bank’s gold and currency reserves are growing. Industrial production has reported a sustainable growth of 2.6 percent, and the growth rate is even higher in the agriculture industry. Colleagues, I believe that our joint work, which is designed to integrate our economic efforts towards not only economic growth but also the wellbeing of our people, is a vital factor of our common development and should encourage us to further strengthen our cooperation. Thank you for your attention. See also BRICS Leaders Xiamen Declaration pdf, 496.4 kB Geography People's
Events BRICS: Towards New Horizons of Strategic Partnership Vladimir Putin’s article BRICS: Towards New Horizons of Strategic Partnership was published ahead of the BRICS Summit, which will be held in Xiamen, China, on September 4 and 5. September 1, 2017 01:00 The 9th BRICS Summit will be held in Xiamen, China, on September 4 and 5. I consider it important in this regard to present Russia’s approaches to cooperation within the framework of this large and respected association and to share my views on the future of our further cooperation. I would like to begin by expressing our appreciation of China’s significant contribution as this year’s chair of the organisation, which has allowed the BRICS countries as a group to move forward in all the key areas of our partnership, including politics, the economy and culture. Moreover, the group of five has greatly strengthened its global standing. It is important that our group’s activities are based on the principles of equality, respect for one another’s opinions and consensus. Within BRICS, nothing is ever forced on anyone. When the approaches of its members do not coincide, we work patiently and carefully to coordinate them. This open and trust-based atmosphere is conducive to the successful implementation of our tasks. Russia highly values the multifaceted cooperation that has developed within BRICS. Our countries’ constructive cooperation on the international arena is aimed at creating a fair multipolar world and equal development conditions for all. Russia stands for closer coordination of the BRICS countries’ foreign policies, primarily at the UN and G20, as well as other international organisations. It is clear that only the combined efforts of all countries can help bring about global stability and find solutions to many acute conflicts, including those in the Middle East. I would like to say that it was largely thanks to the efforts of Russia and other concerned countries that conditions have been created to improve the situation in Syria. We have delivered a powerful blow to the terrorists and laid the groundwork for launching the movement towards a political settlement and the return of the Syrian people to peace. However, the fight against terrorists in Syria and other countries and regions must continue. Russia calls for going over from debates to the practical creation of a broad counterterrorism front based on international law and led by the UN. Naturally, we highly appreciate the support and assistance of our BRICS partners in this respect. I have to say a few words about the situation on the Korean Peninsula, where tensions have grown recently and the situation is balancing on the brink of a large-scale conflict. Russia believes that the policy of putting pressure on Pyongyang to stop its nuclear missile programme is misguided and futile. The region’s problems should only be settled through a direct dialogue of all the parties concerned without any preconditions. Provocations, pressure and militarist and insulting rhetoric are a dead-end road. Russia and China have created a roadmap for a settlement on the Korean Peninsula that is designed to promote the gradual easing of tensions and the creation of a mechanism for lasting peace and security. Russia also calls for promoting the interaction of the BRICS countries in the area of global information security. We propose joining our efforts to create a legal basis for cooperation and subsequently to draft and adopt universal rules of responsible behaviour of states in this sphere. A major step towards this goal would be the signing of an intergovernmental BRICS agreement on international information security. I would like to point out that on Russia’s initiative a BRICS Strategy for Economic Partnership was adopted at the Ufa Summit in 2015 and is being successfully implemented. We hope to be able to discuss new large-scale cooperation tasks in trade and investment and industrial cooperation at the Xiamen Summit. Russia is interested in promoting economic cooperation within the BRICS format. Considerable practical achievements have been recently reported in this area, primarily the launch of the New Development Bank . It has approved seven investment projects in the BRICS countries worth around $1.5 billion. This year, the NDB is to approve a second package of investment projects worth $2.5-$3 billion in total. I am convinced that their implementation will not only be a boost to our economies but will also promote integration between our countries. Russia shares the BRICS countries’ concerns over the unfairness of the global financial and economic architecture, which does not give due regard to the growing weight of the emerging economies. We are ready to work together with our partners to promote international financial regulation reforms and to overcome the excessive domination of the limited number of reserve currencies. We will also work towards a more balanced distribution of quotas and voting shares within the IMF and the World Bank. I am confident that the BRICS countries will continue to act in a consolidated manner against protectionism and new barriers in global trade. We value the BRICS countries’ consensus on this issue, which allows us to more consistently advocate the foundations of an open, equal and mutually beneficial multilateral trade system and to strengthen the role of the WTO as the key regulator in international trade. Russia’s initiative on the development of cooperation among the BRICS countries’ antimonopoly agencies is aimed at creating effective mechanisms to encourage healthy competition. The goal is to create a package of cooperation measures to work against the restrictive business practices of large multinational corporations and trans-border violations of competition rules. I would like to draw your attention to Russia’s initiative on the establishment of a BRICS Energy Research Platform. We believe that this would enable us to coordinate our information, analysis and research activities in the interests of the five BRICS countries and would ultimately facilitate the implementation of joint energy investment projects. Another priority is to build up our cooperation in the area of small and medium-sized enterprises . We believe that we should integrate the national SMEs’ online resources for placing crosslinks and other commercial information and for exchanging data on reliable partners. Russia is advocating the Women and the Economy public-private dialogue. This initiative provides for holding regular debates by members of the BRICS countries’ business and expert communities, women’s associations and government agencies. The first such meeting was held in Novosibirsk on July 4, 2017, on the sidelines of the First International Women’s Congress of the SCO and BRICS Member States. Another related idea is to create a BRICS Women’s Business Club as a network of professional interaction between women in business through a specialised online information resource. Our other priorities include cooperation in science, technology, innovations and cutting edge medicine. Our countries have a big potential in this respect that comprises a solid and mutually complementary research base, unique technical achievements, skilled personnel and huge markets for science-intensive products. We propose discussing at the upcoming summit a package of measures to reduce the threat of infectious diseases and to create new medicines to prevent and fight epidemics. I believe our cooperation in the humanitarian sphere has excellent prospects. While working to implement the BRICS Intergovernmental Agreement on Cooperation in the Field of Culture, we hope that our partners will take part in the New Wave and New Wave Junior international contests of young pop singers. We have also advanced the initiative to create a joint television network of the BRICS countries. Russia stands for strengthening the BRICS countries’ partnership in politics, the economy, culture and other areas. We are ready to continue working jointly with our colleagues to promote democracy and to strengthen the healthy elements of international relations based firmly on international law. I am convinced that the Xiamen Summit will help invigorate our countries’ efforts towards finding solutions to the challenges of the 21st century and will propel cooperation within BRICS to a higher level. I wholeheartedly wish health and success to your readers and to all people in the BRICS countries. Topics BRICS Foreign policy Publication status Published in sections: News , Transcripts Publication date: September 1, 2017, 01:00 Direct link: en.kremlin.ru/d/55487 Text version
Good afternoon, Allow me to skip any statements and monologues. You have seen and heard everything, a great deal. Let us get straight to questions. Go ahead, please. G20 is primarily an economic forum, even though many political and similar issues emerge. Nevertheless, the main issue is the development of the global economy, and this is what received the greatest attention. We agreed on determining global economy sustainability principles, and this is vitally important for working along the same standards. We have not seen any unfavourable trends so far, or they have almost disappeared at any rate. Certain factors are having a negative impact on economic development, including in the global economy, the economy in the Euro zone and in Russia, those same illegitimate restrictions you have mentioned. We call for lifting any restrictions, for free trade, for working within the World Trade Organisation, in line the WTO rules. By the way, one of the topics discussed here was free trade and countering protectionism. This is also one of the crucial areas that should be mentioned. On the whole, there is some progress. However, the initial optimistic growth forecasts have been downgraded. Nevertheless, there is growth, and it is apparent, including in Russia. I said recently and repeated it here that Russian economic growth is tangible, the Russian economy, and we can say this with certainty, has recovered from the recession. We have been growing for the third quarter in a row, and soon it will be the fourth quarter in a row. Growth exceeded 3 The US President asked me this question directly, and we discussed it. And this was not a single question, there were many, and he gave much attention to this issue. Russia's stance is well-known and I reiterated it. There is no reason to believe that Russia interfered in the US election process. But what is important is that we have agreed that there should not be any uncertainty in this sphere, especially in the future. By the way, I mentioned at the latest summit session that this directly concerns cyberspace, web resources and so on. The US President and I have agreed to establish a working group and make joint efforts to monitor security in the cyberspace, ensure full compliance with international laws in this area, and to prevent interference in countries' internal affairs. Primarily this concerns Russia and the United States. We believe that if we succeed in organising this work – and I have no doubt that we will – there will be no more speculation over this matter. As regards personal relations, I believe that they have been established. This is how I I repeat, he asked many question on this matter. I answered all of his questions as far as I could. I think he took note and agreed. But it would be better if you asked him about what he thinks about it. I think we can engage in dialogue, especially at the level of the President or the Government, with the people who propose a constructive agenda, even if they voice criticism. But if the point is to attract publicity, this does not encourage dialogue. The interests of Russia and Ukraine, the interests of the Russian and Ukraine people – and I am fully and profoundly confident of this – coincide. Our interests fully coincide. The only thing that does not coincide is the interests of the current Ukrainian authorities and some of Ukraine's political circles. If we are to be objective, of course, both Ukraine and Russia are interested in cooperating with each other, joining their competitive advantages and developing their economies just because we have inherited much from the Soviet era – I am speaking about cooperation, the unified infrastructure and the energy industry, transport, and so on. But regrettably, today our Ukrainian colleagues believe this can be neglected. They have only one ”product“ left – Russophobia, and they are selling it successfully. Another thing they are selling is the policy of dividing Russia and Ukraine and pulling the two peoples and two nations apart. Some in the West like this; they believe that Russia and Ukraine must not be allowed to get closer in any areas. That is why the current Ukrainian authorities are making active and successful efforts to sell this ”product.“ But I think this will eventually come to an end. Russia, at any rate, wants for this situation to be over as soon as possible. As regards the United States' involvement in settling the situation in Ukraine, President Trump and I have talked about this and we agreed – and actually, this has already been done – that a special representative of the administration would be appointed to handle this issue on a permanent basis and to be in constant contact both with Russia and Ukraine, with all the parties interested in settling this conflict. I will have to make a full report to you. To be honest, I am not aware of the difficulties, you had better ask the Sherpa. In my view, there were no basic objections from anyone. Maybe some of the wording. But, to be honest, I am not aware of that. I know that the text was agreed on. At any rate, at the level of delegation heads, heads of state, there were no problems or tensions. Everyone admits that this is a common threat and everyone states their readiness to fight this threat. As for Qatar, the problem was not discussed. It is a fairly burning regional issue, and can impact certain processes, by the way, including in the economy, in the energy area and in terms of security in the region, but I did not discuss this issue with anybody during the Summit. About Syria. Yes, we discussed this issue with almost all of my interlocutors. As for whether the US stance has changed or not – I would say it has become more pragmatic. It does not seem to have changed in general, but there is an understanding now that by combining efforts, we can achieve a lot. Yesterday's deal on the southern de-escalation zone is clearly the result of this change. You know, others may react as they like, but I can tell you, this is one of the breakthroughs we have made in our work with President Trump. This is a real result of cooperation, including with the United States. Jordan has joined in the effort, and so have several other countries in the region. We have held consultations with Israel and will continue them in the near future. Still, this is a very good result, a breakthrough of a kind. Therefore, if we move the same way in other directions, towards other de-escalation areas… We have discussed this very thoroughly with the President of Turkey today. This does not entirely depend on us, of course, as much has to do with the controversy between the countries in the region. Everyone has their own concerns, everyone has their own preferences, their own interests, I mean legitimate interests, so this is the way we must treat these – as their legitimate interests; we need to look for compromises. You know, sometimes we find them. In any case, the fact that active military operations have ceased, the fact that we are now discussing de-escalation zones is a huge step forward. Now we need to agree on the exact boundaries of these zones, and how security will be ensured there. This is a painstaking, even tedious effort, and it is extremely important and responsible work. Based on the recent positive experience, relying on the good will of Iran, Turkey, and of course, the Syrian Government and President al-Assad, we can take further steps. The most important thing is – we have actually reaffirmed this, also in the documents establishing this zone in the south on the border with Jordan, and the area that borders on the Golan Heights – the most important thing is to ensure Syria’s territorial integrity, eventually, so that these de-escalation zones become the prototype of regions that could cooperate with each other and with the official Damascus. If we manage to do this, we will lay the groundwork, create the prerequisites for resolving the entire Syrian problem by political means. Here in Germany? You are asking rather provocative questions. But I told you that we had not interfered in the United States either. Why should we make trouble here as well? We have very good relations with the Federal Republic. It is our largest trade and economic partner in Europe country-wise, one of our leading trade partners in the world. We have large joint projects on the agenda that we support, for example, Nord Stream 2. There are a lot of tales being told about it, arguments and even resistance but it is absolutely evident that it is in the interests of the European economy and in the interests of the German economy, which wants to abandon nuclear power. Why would we do it? Interfering in domestic political processes is the last thing we would wish to do. If you look at the press, the German press or the European press in general, the French press, it is they who keep on interfering in our domestic affairs. But we are not concerned about it because we feel confident. No, I did not. You should ask him about how he sees it, what he thinks about my answers. As to what happened – nothing happened, we did not interfere. We will give them a piece of our minds. He started asking probing questions, he was really interested in some details. I gave him fairly detailed answers as much as I could. I told him about my dialogues with the previous administration, including with President Obama. But I do not feel that I have the right to give details of my conversations, say, with President Obama, it is not an accepted practice at this level. I think it would not be quite appropriate of me to give details of our conversation with President Trump. He asked me and I answered him. He asked probing questions, and I offered explanations. I think he was satisfied with those answers. You are welcome. Let me explain. As you must know, No, I have not, because the car is not ready yet. You can go for a drive in it yourself, I will see how it goes, and later we can test it out together. Let me answer the second question first. Mr Tillerson is a well-regarded man, he received the Russian Order of Friendship, and we feel great respect for him and we like him. But he is not a Syrian citizen, and the future of Syria and President al-Assad as a political figure has to be determined by the Syrian people. As regards the Kurdish issue, this is a very big and complicated problem. We keep in contact with many Kurdish groups and make no secret of this. But with regard to military support of their activities, here our US colleagues are far ahead of the game; they are making much greater efforts in this regard. Our servicemen – not advisers – who are monitoring the ceasefire are indeed present in many regions of Syria, where the truce agreement has been reached. But speaking of the regions you have mentioned, there are one or two of them there, they are not military units. They are performing the task that everyone is interested in fulfilling. But so far, we are not witnessing any preparations for military action; quite the opposite, we expect that our preliminary developments on establishing the de-escalation zones in several regions – in the Idlib area, in the north – will be accomplished. And this cannot be done without Turkey's support. I view these plans highly positively because healthy competition is good for everyone. We support an open market and healthy competition. The US President said yesterday during the discussion that the United States stands for open, fair competition. And, by the way, when I spoke, I supported his point. So, we are absolutely all right with this; if it is so, if there is open and fair competition, no political motives or political resources involved, it would be quite acceptable for us. Because to date, I very much hope so, and it seems to me that we have built certain prerequisites for this. Thank you very much. All the best. Additional The G20 Summit in Hamburg July 7 − 8, 2017 Geography Germany Topics Foreign policy G20
Events Article by Vladimir Putin published in the German business newspaper Handelsblatt July 6, 2017 07:00 Ahead of my trip to Germany to take part in the Summit of the Group of Twenty, I would like to share some thoughts about cooperation within the G20 framework with the readers of Handelsblatt, one of the most popular and reputable German newspapers. Over the years of its existence, the Group of Twenty has established itself as an important mechanism for aligning the interests and positions of the world’s leading economies. By taking coordinated action, the G20 contributed to the adoption of necessary measures that not only helped overcome the financial and economic crisis, but also laid the foundation for improving global governance, which has found itself in dire straits for a number of reasons. Importantly, by working together we have been able to find solutions to a number of long-standing issues. For instance, Russia highly values practical steps to counter base erosion and profit shifting to so-called ‘safe havens.’ All economies suffer from such practices. Irresponsible corporate behaviour of this kind affects the quality of life of millions of people, resulting in high social costs. Implementation of the financial regulation reform is another achievement of the G20. For example, special regulations for those banks whose bankruptcy would be undesirable or too risky because of their size. For the first time in history, supervision bodies started monitoring transactions in the non-bank, “shadow” financial sector. Decisions regarding the key attributes for preventing and overcoming bank sector crises, organising the work of deposit security agencies and a number of other initiatives have had a major impact. Of course, the creation of the Financial Stability Board  was a major step forward. On the back of its efforts, financial regulation reform took on a system-wide dimension and became routine, while the FSB established itself as an important partner of the IMF in its regular risk assessment studies. The FSB’s creation led to the emergence of similar structures on the national level. Even against the backdrop of growing geopolitical risks and uncertainty, the G20 has not become less efficient as a global governance tool. This is largely attributable to the exceptional responsibility demonstrated by its presiding countries in fulfilling their mission. I am saying this based, among other things, on Russia’s own experience, since our country chaired the Group of Twenty in 2013, and benefited from substantial support and encouragement from all of its partners. The success of the G20 is based on respect for the opinions and position of each member, regardless of the size of its economy and its place in the international monetary and financial system. Constructive discussions and the search for compromise have become the signature style of the G20, the unwritten law of relations, which its current President – Germany – is also putting into practice. The upcoming meeting of the G20 in Hamburg is an opportunity to discuss key issues on the global agenda. We share the priorities of Germany’s Presidency and we are ready to help implement them, provided this continuity is maintained. We welcome the decision to expand the agenda addressed by the G20 to include sustainable development, climate change, countering terrorism and corruption, healthcare, migration and refugees. It is very important that the Group is giving more attention to the digital economy as a growth driver and a new factor of global governance thanks to China’s Presidency in 2016 and Germany’s Presidency this year. We are facing several major challenges. The old economic models have all but exhausted their possibilities. Protectionism is becoming the norm, while unilateral, politically motivated restrictions on trade and investment, as well as technology transfer, are nothing but masked protectionism. We believe that these sanctions are not only doomed to fail, but also run counter to the G20 principles of cooperation in the interests of all countries. I am confident that only open trade based on common norms and standards can stimulate global economic growth and the gradual improvement of interstate relations. Just as it is set forth in the fundamental principles of the World Trade Organisation’s activities. The G20 is doing substantive work on combating climate change. Human activity is greatly increasing the burden on the planet’s environment and is hence complicating the achievement of sustainable development goals. As a leading country within the international climate process, Russia has exceeded its commitments under the Kyoto Protocol. In other words, we have compensated the growing emission in other countries and regions. We view the Paris Agreement of April 2016 as a reliable international legal framework for a lasting climate settlement and intend to do our best to facilitate its implementation. Over the past few years, the G20 has been working on the issue of migration. According to the UN, in 2017 labour migrants will remit over $500 billion to developing countries. This is three times more than the volume of official development assistance or foreign direct investment. The G20 has been working on issues related to the migrants’ integration in the host countries’ labour markets, as well as their cultural adaptation and social protection. In addition, the G20 has formulated decisions this year that could help settle the issue of forced displacement. They are based on the strengthening of regional and global stability and the economic growth of the countries that are generating the unprecedented numbers of refugees. Security of and in the use of ICTs is a new issue on the G20 agenda. Russia consistently advocates free access to communication technologies, including the Internet. We consider it highly important to protect human rights in the information space. At the same time, freedom in the digital sphere, just like in any other, should by no means be replaced by permissiveness and impunity. This leads to a rampage involving cyber-criminals, hacker groups and all those who encroach on the privacy of individuals or the sovereignty of states by using cutting-edge technologies. Russia, which was among the first countries to note the danger of this challenge, has for several years been advocating the conclusion of universal international agreements under the UN auspices that are called on to combat these negative phenomena. We hope this will evoke a positive and interested response from other countries. The G20 agenda should also include digital literacy issues, a key element of protecting consumer rights in e-commerce. I would like to note that various opportunities opened up by the digital economy and a switchover to new industrial and technological patterns simultaneously increase the gap in the development levels between rich and poor countries and aggravate inequality between various social strata. Therefore, our efforts should focus on people, their interests and concerns. I consider this to be a key-priority for G20 activities. Obviously, the G20 can make a weighty contribution to strengthening the stability of the global economy and to maintaining its balanced development. Only by acting together and pooling our efforts can we overcome the current imbalances, ensure sustainable growth, develop fair trade and competition rules, reduce poverty and resolve acute social issues. The Russian delegation will be actively involved in the work of the Hamburg summit, which I am sure will be highly productive. I wish our German colleagues every success in organising the summit. And, of course, we will team up with our G20 partners in implementing the agreements that will be reached at the meeting. In conclusion, I would like to wish all Handelsblatt readers and all Germans health and prosperity. Geography Germany Topics Foreign policy Publication status Published in sections: News , Transcripts Publication date: July 6, 2017, 07:00 Direct link: en.kremlin.ru/d/54988 Text version
Mr Lukashenko, Ms Matviyenko, friends, colleagues, I am happy to welcome you to the fourth Forum of Russian and Belarusian Regions. Our countries are strategic partners in the true sense of this word, and they are very close allies. Working on the solid foundation of friendship and good neighbourliness, we are promoting our ties in all spheres, including the crucial sphere of interregional relations. Our example has a positive influence on our work with our colleagues within the CIS, the Eurasian Economic Union and the CSTO. The overwhelming majority of Russian regions are working closely with their friends in Belarus, particularly on the basis of bilateral cooperation agreements, and are implementing projects both on the region-to-region level, and as part of cooperation between chambers of commerce and industry, research centres and individual enterprises, which the governors just told us about in their reports. I believe that working together we have managed to build an effective structure of cooperation, which creates a reliable basis for increasing business activity and the flow of capital into our respective economies. In 2016, Russian investment in Belarus reached $4 billion, with direct investment, accounting for the bulk of this amount at $3.5 billion. Russian businesses are investing in Belarusian transport and the manufacturing industry. In turn, Belarus has invested over $600 million in Russian agriculture, retail trade, and the pharmaceutical industry. Notably, Moscow, Pskov, Smolensk, Sverdlovsk and Tyumen regions, Bashkortostan, Tatarstan, as well as Moscow and St Petersburg have established particularly strong cooperation ties with their Belarusian partners. The interaction between Belarus and the Russian Far East is gaining momentum. The joint creation of a modern agricultural town in Sakhalin Region is a case in point. We expect the number of such mutually beneficial projects to grow, specifically with the use of the opportunities that open up for businesses in new Russian regions. Colleagues, this forum focuses on expanding cooperation between the regions of Russia and Belarus in the spheres of high technology, innovations and information society. We have just discussed this here. Today, a new economic pattern is taking shape right before our eyes. It is based on active introduction of digital technologies, innovative materials, robotisation, and green energy. The long-term competitiveness of our countries and their positions in the global division of labour will depend on how we meet these technological challenges. I will go as far as to say that our future depends on our ability to achieve this goal. Therefore, it is imperative to step up our efforts to create joint high-tech industrial clusters and engineering centres, to build flexible cooperative chains to manufacture research-intensive products that meet the highest international standards. In a word, we should combine our production, research and personnel potential in order to achieve powerful practical results. We certainly have everything we need to make this happen. Only recently, the Union State Council of Ministers adopted a resolution on the key areas of activity for building a single research and technology space within the Union State. Joint scientific technical programmes like Novopol and Kompomat have served as effective tools for coordinating efforts by researchers and engineers in our two countries. They provided a technology platform for creating cutting-edge polymer and composite materials. Innovation in the medical sector is another important area of joint activity. A programme to develop advanced restorative treatment methods and technology using stem cells has been completed, and the programme to treat children with congenital spine deformities will follow. A developed transport infrastructure should be an integral part of the future economy. We intend to keep improving high-speed passenger traffic across the Union State and developing pan-European transport corridors through the territory of our countries. The construction of the Belarusian Nuclear Power Plant in Ostrovets has great prospects. I am confident that this city will evolve into a major research centre and will win international recognition in the near future, just like Obninsk in Russia, where the first nuclear power plant in the world was built. I have said it on numerous occasions, and I would like to repeat that our countries have immense resources in terms of human capital, as well as intellectual and educational potential. The leading companies and universities of Russia and Belarus have the capability to develop state-of-the-art technology and software products that could compete on the global market. Let me emphasise that Russia is ready to engage in close cooperation with our Belarusian partners to ensure steady and lasting economic growth. We stand ready to coordinate our industrial and technology-related policies, develop infrastructure, and help create a favourable business environment. The Forum of Russian and Belarusian Regions also contributes to these efforts. We hope that the meaningful debates at this forum, the agreements signed within its framework and the joint programmes that will be approved here will make a substantial contribution to strengthening the Union State and stepping up integration across the vast Eurasian space in general. Thank you for your attention.
They have been misled and they are not analysing the information in its entirety. I have not once seen any direct proof of Russia's interference in the presidential election in the USA. We have talked about it with former president Obama Obama Barack and with several other officials. No one ever showed me any direct evidence. When we spoke with President Obama about that, you know, you should probably better ask him about it – I think he will tell you that he, too, is confident of it. But when he and I talked I saw that he, too, started having doubts. At any rate, that's how I saw it. I have already told you, and I can say it again, that today's technology is such that the final address can be masked and camouflaged to an extent that no one will be able to understand the origin of that address. And, vice versa, it is possible to set up any entity or any individual that everyone will think that they are the exact source of that attack. Modern technology is very sophisticated and subtle and allows this to be done. And when we realize that we will get rid of all the illusions. That's one thing. The other thing is that I am deeply convinced that no interference from the outside, in any country, even a small one, let alone in such a vast and great power as the United States, can influence the final outcome of the elections. It is not possible. Ever. The Constitution of the United States and the electoral legislation are structured in such a way that more electors can vote for a candidate who is backed by fewer voters. And such situations do occur in the history of the United States. True, isn't it? Therefore, if we were to discuss some kind of political and social justice, then probably that electoral legislation needs to be changed and bring a situation where the head of state would be elected by direct secret ballot and so there will be direct tabulation of votes that can be easily monitored. That's all there is to it. And there will be no need for those who have lost the elections to point fingers and blame their troubles on anybody. Now, if we turn this page over, I will tell you something that you most likely know about. I don't want to offend anyone, but the United States, everywhere, all over the world, is actively interfering in electoral campaigns in other countries. Is this really news to you? Just talk to people but in such a way so as to convince them that you're not going to make it public. Point your finger to any spot on the world's map, everywhere you'll hear complaints that American officials interfere in their political domestic processes. Therefore, if someone, and I am not saying that it’s us , if anybody does influence in some way or attempts to influence or somehow participates in these processes, then the United States has nothing to be offended by. Who is talking? Who is taking offense that we are interfering? You yourselves interfere all the time. It does not sound like justification. It sounds like a statement of fact. Each action invites appropriate counteraction, but, again, we don't need to do that because I did not tell you this without a reason, both you personally and other members of the media, recently I was in France and I said the same things. Presidents come and go, and even parties come to and away from power. But the main policy tack does not change. So by and large we don't care who will be at the helm in the United States. We have a rough idea of what is going to happen. And in this regard, even if we wanted to it wouldn't make any sense for us to interfere. It’s just that the French journalists asked me about those hackers, and just like I told them, I can tell you, that hackers may be anywhere. They may be in Russia, in Asia, in America, in Latin America. There may be hackers, by the way, in the United States who very craftily and professionally passed the buck to Russia. Can't you imagine such a scenario? In the middle of an internal political fight, it was convenient for them, whatever the reason, to put out that information. And put it out they did. And, doing it, they made a reference to Russia. Can't you imagine it happening? I can. Let us recall the assassination of President Kennedy. There is a theory that Kennedy's assassination was arranged by the United States special services. If this theory is correct, and one cannot rule it out, so what can be easier in today's context, being able to rely on the entire technical capabilities available to special services than to organise some kind of attacks in the appropriate manner while making a reference to Russia in the process. Now, the candidate for the Democratic Party, is this candidate universally beloved in the United States? Was it such a popular person? That candidate, too, had political opponents and rivals. There were no sessions. You see, there were no sessions. When I saw that my jaw dropped. No clue. I am telling you honestly. I don’t know. That’s an ambassador's every day, routine work. Do you think, an ambassador from any place in the world or from the US reports to me daily as to whom he meets with and what they discuss? It's just absurd. Do you even understand what you are asking me? Listen, his boss is the foreign minister. Do you think I have the time to talk to our ambassadors all over the world every day? This is nonsense. Don't you understand that this is just some kind of nonsense. I don't even know with whom he met there. Had there been something out of the ordinary, something remarkable he of course would have advised the minister and the minister would have informed me. Nothing of that happened. No, I haven't. Interview to NBC. No. Because if there had been something meaningful he would have made a report to the minister, and the minister would have made a report to me. There weren't even any reports. Just every day, routine work that doesn't mean anything that may not even have any prospects. It's just that someone decided to find fault with it and, you know, select it as a line of attack against the current President. This isn't for us to get into, these are your domestic political squabbles. So you deal with them. Nothing to talk about. There was not even a specific discussion of sanctions or something else. I just find it amazing how you created a sensation where there wasn't anything at all. And proceeded to turn that sensation into a tool for fighting the sitting president. You know, you're just very resourceful people there, well done, probably your lives there are boring. Russia had no channels of communication with neither campaign, the campaigns of the US Presidential candidates. None whatsoever. Russia did not set up and did not have any channels with anyone. There may have been official contacts with the campaigns of all the candidates, which is a standard diplomatic practice. I am not aware of such a proposal. No such proposal ever reached me. You and I, we have a much closer relationship than with Mr Flynn. You and I met up yesterday evening. You and I have worked all day together. We are meeting yet again at this moment. When I came to the event at our company, Russia Today , and sat down at the table, next to me there was a gentleman, and someone else was sitting down on my other side. I made a speech, then we talked about something else, then I got up and left. Afterwards, I was told, ”You know, that American gentleman, he used to do this before, used to work in the special services. And now he does this.“ ”Great,“ I said, ”Are you working with him somehow?“ “No, we just invited him as a guest, one of the guests.” And I I want to say that Russia is developing along a democratic path, this is without question so. No one should have any doubts about that. The fact that, amidst political rivalry and some other domestic developments, we see things happen here that are typical of other countries, I do not see anything unusual in it. We have rallies, opposition rallies. And people here have the right to express their point of view. However, if people, while expressing their views, break the current legislation, the effective law in place, then of course, the law enforcement agencies try to restore order. I am calling your attention to something that I discussed recently when on a trip to France and in my discussions with other European colleagues. Our police force, fortunately, so far, do not use batons, tear gas or any other extreme measures of instilling order, something that we often see in other countries, including in the United States. Speaking of opposition, let us recall the movement Occupy Wall Street. Where is it now? The law enforcement agencies and special services in the US have taken it apart, into little pieces, and have dissolved it. I'm not asking you about how things stand in terms of democracy in the United States. Especially so that the electoral legislation is far from being perfect in the US. Why do you believe you are entitled to put such questions to us and, mind you, do it all the time, to moralize and to teach us how we should live? We are ready to listen to our partners, ready to listen to appraisals and assessments when it is done in a friendly manner, in order to establish contacts and create a common atmosphere and dedicate ourselves to shared values. But we absolutely will not accept when such things are used as a tool of political struggle. I want everybody to know that. This is our message. Well, this is just another piece of nonsense. Where would we get any information about him? Did we have some kind of special relationship with him. There was no relationship whatsoever. Yes, he visited Moscow in his day. But, you know, I never met him. Many Americans come here. There are representatives of 100 companies from the US, who have come to Russia. Do you think I have met each and every representative of those American companies? You probably saw me walk into the conference hall, where our colleagues were sitting. I consider them all to be our friends. They are all working in Russia and many of them have been doing it for many years. They are investors. They are the CEOs of major US companies. They are interested in joint work. And that’s great! And we will welcome each and every one of them. And we will consider each of them our friend. And we will help them implement their plans in Russia and will try to steer things in a direction so that they can work here successfully and make a profit. And should they all be arrested for it afterwards? Have you lost your minds there or something? What about the freedom of economy? What about human rights? Do you think we are gathering dirt on all of them now? Are you all right in the head, all of you there? I hope not. Do you know what I feel? I feel this live, direct connection to this land, to its history, to this country. You have said that you have been in St Petersburg for several days. Yesterday, I had a conversation with Indian Prime Minister. He had visited the Piskarevskoye Memorial Cemetery, where almost 400,000 residents of Leningrad were buried, most of them civilians. They died during the siege of Leningrad. They starved to death. And buried in one of those graves is my older brother whom I have never seen. And I will never forget that, just like I will never forget the state in which this country was in the early 1990s. You and I have had a debate today in the course of our conversation. However, in this country, since 2000 – and we have many problems, and recently even the poverty threshold has become a little worse than we planned – the situation will recover, I am confident of that, and yet our population's real wages have grown manifold. And so have pensions. Our economy has become completely different, on the whole. The size has changed. The economy has almost doubled in size. And the quality is changing, not as fast as we would like it to, but the structure is changing. Our Armed Forces are completely different today from what they were, say 15 years ago or so. All of this, including our great history, great culture, all of this, not just what we see today, is what makes the vast majority of Russia's citizens feel proud for their country.
It is true that President Macron invited me to take part in the opening of the exhibition. However, let me tell you straight away that the relations between Russia and France have a much longer history and much deeper roots, as the French President and I both mentioned on several occasions today. In fact, the younger daughter of Yaroslav the Wise, one of Russia’s Grand Princesses, Anna came here in the 11th century to marry King Henry I of France. She was actually called Anna of Rus, Queen of France. Her son Philip I of France was the founder of two European royal houses, the Valois and the Bourbons, and the latter rules in Spain to this day. This goes to say that the roots of our relations go much deeper, although over the last 300 years they did pick up momentum. This is true. I very much hope that today’s event, the exhibition and my talks with President Macron will give a new impetus to these relations. As I have said to my French colleague and our French friends today, Peter the Great was above all a reformer, a man who not only implemented the best and the most up-to-date practices, but also was undoubtedly a patriot, who fought to secure for Russia the place it deserved in international affairs. But above all, he was committed to reforming his country, making it modern, resilient and forward-looking. He succeeded in many, if not all of his undertakings. He focused on research, education, culture, military affairs and statehood, leaving an immense legacy that Russia has been relying on to this day, let alone the fact that he founded my hometown, St Petersburg, which was the capital of Russia for many years. At any meeting, in any contacts, at any events of this level, especially if it is the first contact, there are always expectations. If there are no expectations, it is pointless to hold meetings of this kind. I certainly had expectations this time. I wanted to get a closer look, to learn first-hand the position of the incoming President of the French Republic on the key issues on the international agenda and on the development of bilateral relations. As the newly elected President takes office, he certainly has his own view of things, of bilateral relations, of international politics. Overall, I would say it is a very pragmatic view. We certainly have points for rapprochement, for joint work in key areas. Progress in resolving any conflict, including the conflict in southeast Ukraine, can be achieved first and foremost by the conflicting parties. This conflict is internal – a Ukrainian conflict primarily. It occurred after an unconstitutional forceful seizure of power in Kiev in 2014. This is the source of all problems. The most important thing to do is to find the strength to negotiate with all the conflicting parties, and above all, I am confident that as they say, the ball is in the court of the official Kiev authorities. First of all, they must take care of implementing the Minsk agreements. This is what we keep talking about. We believe that the main condition is to withdraw the armed forces from the contact line. This is the first thing that must be done. The withdrawal has been completed in two areas, but this goal has not been reached in the third area. The Ukrainian authorities say this cannot be done because of the shooting there. But shooting will not stop unless troops and heavy weaponry pull back. Heavy weaponry must be withdrawn. This is a key priority. The second goal in the political sphere is to put into practice, at long last, the law on the special status of these regions, which the Ukrainian parliament has adopted. The law has been adopted but has not come into effect. The law on amnesty has been passed, but President Poroshenko has not signed it. The Minsk Agreements stipulate the social and economic rehabilitation in the self-proclaimed republics. Instead of doing this, Kiev has blockaded these territories. The blockade was initiated by the radicals who blocked the railway lines. At first, the Ukrainian President denounced their actions and said that he would restore order. However, he failed. Instead of continuing his efforts, he officially joined the blockade and issued an executive order to this effect. Can we speak of changes for the better in this situation? Regrettably, we have not seen any so far. First, I would like to note the constructive approach of Turkey and Iran, and, of course, the Syrian government, which, together with Russia, have managed to achieve a ceasefire. The ceasefire would not have been possible without the so-called Syrian armed opposition. It was the first and very important step towards peace. Another step, which is no less important, is the agreement on establishing the so-called de-escalation zones. Currently there are four such zones. We believe this is an extremely important milestone on the way to peace, if I can phrase it this way, because it is impossible to talk about a political settlement without stopping the bloodshed. Now, in my opinion, we are all facing a different task, which is technically and I would even say technologically completing the creation of these de-escalation zones, agreeing on their boundaries and how government bodies will function there, as well as how these de-escalation zones will communicate with the outside world. Incidentally, President Macron mentioned this when he was speaking about humanitarian aid convoys. Generally, I believe that the French President is right and it is one of the points of contact where we can cooperate with our French colleagues. Once the de-escalation zones are formalised, I do hope that at least some elements of cooperation will begin between the government and those people who will control the de-escalation zones. I really hope that these zones do not become a prototype for the future territorial division in Syria. On the contrary, I expect that these de-escalation zones, if peace is established, and the people who will be controlling them, will cooperate with the official Syrian authorities. This is how an environment of basic interaction and cooperation can and must be built. The next step is a purely political reconciliation and, if possible, the development of constitutional regulations, a constitution and holding elections. I do not think I have the right to determine the political future of Syria, be it with or without al-Assad. This is for the Syrians themselves to decide. Nobody has the right to claim the rights that belong to the people of another country. This is the first thing I wanted to say. Do you have an additional question? As I have said, this is for the Syrian people to decide. You have mentioned allegations about the use of chemical weapons by the Syrian government. When the attack happened, we called on our American partners – and everyone else who considers this to be expedient – to send inspectors to the airfield from which the planes that dropped chemical bombs allegedly took off. If chemical weapons were used by President al-Assad’s official agencies, modern verification equipment would certainly find traces of this at the airfield. For certain. These traces would be found in the aircraft and at the airfield. However, everyone refused to conduct such an inspection. We also proposed sending inspectors to the site of the alleged chemical attack. But they refused as well, claiming that it was dangerous. Why is this dangerous if the attack was delivered at an area where peaceful civilians live and the healthy part of the armed opposition is deployed? In my opinion, the accusations have been made for the sole purpose of justifying the use of additional measures, including military ones, against al-Assad. That is all. There is no proof that al-Assad has used chemical weapons. We firmly believe that that this is a provocation. President al-Assad did not use chemical weapons. Yes, I do. Moreover, I believe that this issue should be addressed on a broader scale. President Macron shares this view. No matter who uses chemical weapons against people and organisations, the international community must formulate a common policy and find a solution that would make the use of such weapons impossible for anyone. No, I am not. We had no special expectations. The US President is steering a traditional US policy. Of course, we remember that during his election campaign, and also after he was elected and assumed office, President Trump spoke about his intention to normalise the relationship with Russia and said that it cannot be any worse. We remember this. However, we also see and realise that the political situation in the United States is influenced by those who have lost the elections but refuse to accept their defeat, and who continue to use the anti-Russia card and various allegations most actively in the political infighting. This is why we are in no hurry, we are ready to wait, yet we strongly hope that Russian-US relations will become normal again sometime in the future. As for increasing… There is no such thing as a perfect world, and there is no subjunctive mood in politics. I would like to answer the second part of your question, regarding plans to increase military spending by 2 percent or more. It is a fact that the US defence budget is larger than the defence budgets of all other countries taken together. This is why I understand the US President when he says that his NATO allies should take over part of this burden. It is a pragmatic and understandable approach. However, what attracted my attention is that the NATO leaders spoke at their summit about a desire to improve relations with Russia. Then why are they increasing their military spending? Whom are they planning to fight against? I see an inner contradiction here, although this is not our business. Let NATO decide who will pay and how much. We have our own defence to deal with, and we are working to ensure it reliably and with a view to the future. We feel confident. For us this is a sign that our partners in Europe and in the United States are, pardon me, pursuing a short-sighted policy. They do not have the habit of looking one step ahead. Our Western partners have lost this habit. When the Soviet Union ceased to exist, Western politicians told us that NATO would not expand to the East. Some German politicians at the time even proposed creating a new security system in Europe that would involve the United States and, by the way, Russia. If that had been done, we would not have the problems we have had in recent years, which is NATO’s expansion to the East up to our borders, the advance of military infrastructure to our borders. Perhaps, the United States would not have unilaterally withdrawn from the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty. This treaty was a cornerstone of current and future security. The missile defence facilities in Europe – in Poland and Romania – would not have been built, which, undoubtedly, creates a threat to our strategic nuclear forces and disrupts the strategic balance – an extremely dangerous development for international security. Perhaps all this would not have happened. But it did, and we cannot rewind history, it is not a movie. We have to proceed from the current situation. In this respect, we need to think about what we want from the future. I think we all want security, peace, safety and cooperation. Therefore, we should not build up tensions or invent fictional threats from Russia, some hybrid warfare etc. You made these things up yourselves and now scare yourselves with them and even use them to plan your prospective policies. These policies have no prospects. The only possible future is in cooperation in all areas, including security issues. What is the major security problem today? Terrorism. There are bombings in Europe, in Paris, in Russia, in Belgium. There is a war in the Middle East. This is the main concern. But no, let us keep speculating on the threat from Russia. Ask Europe. We are willing to cooperate, as I said a while ago at the 70th anniversary of the United Nations, when I called on all countries to unite their efforts to fight terrorism. However, this is a very complex issue. Look, after the Paris terrorist attack, a bloody and horrible event, President Hollande came to Russia and we agreed on cooperative actions. The Charles de Gaulle aircraft carrier approached the Syrian coast. Then, Francois headed to Washington, while the Charles de Gaulle left for the Suez Canal. So real cooperation with France ended before it even started. France is involved in operations there, but it is acting within the US-led coalition. Go figure who gives the orders, and who is not, who has a say, and what the agenda is. Russia is open to cooperation. It was also very difficult to agree on these issues with the US. Incidentally, we have been seeing some shifts lately; and there are actual results. I spoke to President Trump on the telephone, and he supported the idea, in general, of creating de-escalation zones. We are now considering how the interests of all the countries to the south of Syria can be best served, with consideration for the concerns of all the countries that face issues in this region. I am referring to Jordan, Israel and Syria itself. Of course, Russia is ready to heed what the United States and our European partners have to say. However, what we need is for the dialogue to be specific and concise, instead of empty talk about mutual claims and threats. There is a need for a real effort. That is exactly the way it is. I have already commented on this issue many times. There was a question on this topic from one of your colleagues today. He put it very cautiously at the news conference, saying that ‘there are allegations that Russian hackers…’ Who is making these allegations? Based on what? If these are just allegations, then these hackers could be from anywhere else and not necessarily from Russia. As President Trump once said, and I think that he was totally right when he said it could have been someone sitting on their bed or somebody intentionally inserted a flash drive with the name of a Russian national, or something like that. Anything is possible in this virtual world. Russia never engages in activities of this kind, and we do not need it. It makes no sense for us to do such things. What for? I have already spoken to three US Presidents. They come and go, but politics stay the same at all times. Do you know why? Because of the powerful bureaucracy. When a person is elected, they may have some ideas. Then people with briefcases arrive, well dressed, wearing dark suits, just like mine, except for the red tie, since they wear black or dark blue ones. These people start explaining how things are done. And instantly, everything changes. This is what happens with every administration. Changing things is not easy, and I say this without any irony. It is not that someone does not want to, but because it is a hard thing to do. Take Obama, a forward-thinking man, a liberal, a democrat. Did he not pledge to shut down Guantanamo before his election? But did he do it? No, he did not. And may I ask why not? Did he not want to do it? He wanted to, I am sure he did, but it did not work out. He sincerely wanted to do it, but did not succeed, since it turned out to be very complicated. This is not the main issue, however, even though it is important, since it is hard to fathom that people have been walking there in chains for decades without trial or investigation. Can you imagine France or Russia acting this way? This would have been a disaster. But it is possible in the United States and continues to this day. This refers to the question on democracy, by the way. I referred to this example just to show that it is not as simple as it may seem. That said, I am cautiously optimistic, and I think that we can and should be able to reach agreements on key issues. It is not based on allegations, but on the desire of those who lost the elections in the United States to at least improve their standing through anti-Russia attacks, by accusing Russia of interference. The people who lost the elections do not want to admit that they really lost, that the one who won was closer to the people and better understood what ordinary voters want. They are absolutely reluctant to admit this, and prefer deluding themselves and others into thinking it was not their fault, that their policy was correct, they did all the right things, but someone from the outside thwarted them. But it was not so. They just lost and they have to admit it. When they do, I think it will be easier for us to work. However, the fact that this is being done using anti-Russia tools is not good, as it brings discord into international affairs. Let them argue among themselves, so they can prove who is stronger, who is better, who is smarter, who is more reliable and who sets a better policy for the country. Why involve third countries? This is very distressing. But it will pass, everything passes, and this will pass as well. All the recent election campaigns in Russia have been in strict accordance with the Russian Constitution, in strict compliance. And I will make every effort to ensure that the 2018 election campaigns are conducted in the same way, I repeat, in strict accordance with the law and the Constitution. So anyone entitled to run, anyone who fulfils the relevant procedures prescribed by law, can and will participate, if they wish, in elections at all levels – to legislative assemblies, to parliament, and in presidential elections. As for the candidates, it is still too early to talk about it.
Events Vladimir Putin’s article, Russia and India: 70 years together, has been published The article in The Times of India was published to mark the 70 th anniversary of diplomatic relations with India. May 30, 2017 17:30 Russia and India: 70 years together This year, we are celebrating the anniversary of a truly historic event. Seventy years ago – on April 13, 1947 – the governments of the USSR and India announced their decision to establish official missions in Delhi and Moscow. This step on our part logically followed up on our course for assisting India on its way to national liberation and contributed to strengthening its independence. In the decades that have followed, our bilateral partnership has further intensified and strengthened, and has never been subject to expediency. Equal and mutually beneficial relations of the two States have steadily developed. This is quite natural. Our peoples have always had mutual sympathy and respect for each other's spiritual values and culture. Today, we can take pride in what we have achieved. With Russia's technical and financial assistance, the pioneers of Indian industrialization came into existence: metallurgical complexes in Bhilai, Visakhapatnam and Bokaro, the mining equipment plant in Durgapur, the thermal power station in Neyveli, the electromechanical enterprise in Korba, antibiotics plants in Rishikesh and the pharmaceutical plant in Hyderabad. Soviet and, later on, Russian scientists and academics participated in the establishment of research and education centers in India. These include the Indian Institute of Technology in Bombay, research institutes of petroleum industry in Dehradun and Ahmedabad. We are proud our specialists helped develop India's space program. Thanks to this fruitful bilateral cooperation, in 1975 India's first satellite, Aryabhata, was launched, and Indian citizen Rakesh Sharma travelled into space in 1984 as a crew member of Soyuz T-11. In August 1971, our countries signed the Treaty of Peace, Friendship and Cooperation, which set forth the fundamental principles of bilateral relations, such as respect for the sovereignty and each other's interests, good‑neighborliness, and peaceful coexistence. In 1993, the Russian Federation and the Republic of India confirmed the inviolability of these basic principles in the new Treaty of Peace, Friendship and Cooperation. The Declaration on Strategic Partnership signed in 2000 provides for close coordination of approaches to ensuring international peace and security and resolving pressing global and regional issues. Annual summits have become an established practice in the Indian-Russian bilateral relations allowing us to discuss in a timely manner the efforts taken to accomplish our objectives and set long-term goals. In early June, we will have another summit with Prime Minister Narendra Modi in St. Petersburg. He is expected to attend the St. Petersburg International Economic Forum, in which India will for the first time participate as a partner country. The legal framework comprising more than 250 documents is being updated on a regular basis. Effective work is carried out within intergovernmental commissions on cooperation in trade and economy, science and technology, as well as culture and military-technical field. Ministries of foreign affairs, security council offices and line ministries maintain continuous dialogue. The interparliamentary and interregional ties, as well as business and humanitarian contacts are actively developing. Military cooperation is also being enhanced: joint land and naval exercises are conducted regularly. Cooperation in peaceful uses of atomic energy is one of the fundamental components of the relationship between India and Russia. The construction of the Kudankulam Nuclear Power Plant with our assistance is a flagship project in this field. In 2013, the first nuclear power unit was put into operation. In October 2016, the second unit was transferred to the Indian side, and construction of the third and fourth power units began. All of this contributes to the implementation of the plans to develop nuclear energy in India involving the construction of at least 12 power units in its territory by 2020. These goals are stipulated in a joint document – the Strategic Vision for Strengthening India-Russia Cooperation in Peaceful Uses of Atomic Energy. We intend to further share best practices in this important industry with India and contribute to enhancing its energy security. Collaboration in the traditional energy sector is successfully developing. The purchase of a block of shares in the Russian company ”Vankorneft“ made by the Indian consortium of companies has become the biggest bilateral deal in the oil industry. The possibilities for the participation of Indian companies in joint hydrocarbons exploration and production projects in the Russian Arctic shelf are currently under consideration. There are also good prospects for cooperation in the solar energy filed, modernization of the existing power plants and construction of new ones in the territory of India. Large-scale projects are carried out in mechanical engineering, chemical and mining industries, aircraft construction, pharmaceutics and medicine. One of the priorities is to boost the trade turnover and improve its structure, as well as stimulate economic activity of our business communities. I am referring to enhancing industrial cooperation and increasing supplies of high-tech products, creating a better business and investment environment, and using systems of payments in national currencies. The decision to start negotiations on a free trade area agreement between the Eurasian Economic Union and India adopted in December 2016 is of particular importance. The possibilities of creating the International North‑South Transport Corridor are being explored. All these factors should promote the development of our bilateral and regional cooperation. To encourage reciprocal capital inflow, a working group on priority investment projects was established under the Inter-Governmental Commission on Trade, Economic, Scientific, Technological and Cultural Cooperation. 19 most promising projects have already been selected. Russia is committed to long-term participation in the ”Make in India“ program initiated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Our countries cooperate intensively in the production of multipurpose weapons and military equipment. Co-production of a unique supersonic cruise missile ”BrahMos“ is our special pride. Since 1960, the overall value of contracts within the framework of military and technical cooperation has amounted to over USD 65 billion, while the portfolio of orders in 2012–2016 exceeded USD 46 billion. India and Russia are equal partners in international affairs. Our countries support the establishment of a multipolar democratic system of international relations based on strict compliance with the principles of law and resting upon the UN central role. We are willing to further jointly counter challenges and threats of the 21 st century, promote the unifying agenda and contribute to maintaining global and regional security. We effectively interact within BRICS – an association that thanks to our collective efforts is increasing its weight and influence. This June, India will become a full member of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization. It will considerably enhance the potential of the SCO. India and Russia also work together within the G20 and other international formats. I would also like to note that our countries closely coordinate positions on such complex issues as settling the situation in Syria and ensuring stability in the Middle East and North Africa region. They significantly contribute to the national reconciliation process in Afghanistan. I am convinced that the enormous potential of cooperation between the two great powers will be further explored for the benefit of the peoples of India and Russia and the international community in general. We have everything necessary to achieve this – political will of the sides, economic viability and shared global priorities. All this is based on the glorious history of the Indian‑Russian friendship. Taking this opportunity, I would like to convey the kindest regards to all the citizens of friendly India. Geography India Topics Foreign policy Publication status Published in sections: News , Transcripts Publication date: May 30, 2017, 17:30 Direct link: en.kremlin.ru/d/54633 Text version
Mr President Xi Jinping, heads of state and governments, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, It is a great honour for me to participate in the opening ceremony of the Belt and Road international forum. President Xi Jinping informed us about his plans to hold such a representative event back in September at the Russian-Chinese summit in Hangzhou. Of course, we supported this initiative immediately. Possible concepts for the forum were presented even earlier. Without a doubt, these plans allow for discussion of the huge Eurasian continent’s future in an extended format. Our continent is the home of great civilisations. Peoples of diverse cultures and traditions have lived alongside each other and engaged in trade for centuries. As you know, the famous Silk Road that once connected almost all of Eurasia ran from one oasis to another, from one water well to another. In the well-known Chinese book, I Ching, with its elaborate language, the well is a symbol of vitality that brings people together to communicate with each other, build trust, connections and friendships. This historical experience of cooperation and mutual understanding is just as important to us in the 21 st century at a time when the world is facing very serious challenges and threats. We have exhausted many former models and indicators of economic development. In many countries the concept of a social state, coined in the 20 th century, is now in crisis. These days, it is not only unable to ensure the steady growth of people’s wealth but can hardly maintain current levels of growth. The risks of a disrupted global economic and technological space are becoming increasingly obvious. Protectionism is becoming a common practice that manifests itself in unilateral illegitimate restrictions, including how technology is supplied and distributed. The ideas of openness, freedom of trade are often rejected even by those who supported them so vigorously in the past. The disparity in socioeconomic development and the crisis the globalisation model finds itself in are fraught with negative consequences both for relations between states and for international security. Poverty, lack of financial security, and the massive gap in the level of development between countries and regions all fuel international terrorism, extremism and illegal migration. We will not be able to tackle these challenges unless we overcome this stagnation in global economic development. Let us not forget about those threats that stem from regional conflicts. Areas of smouldering disagreements still exist across Eurasia. In order to eliminate those conflicts, first of all, we need to abandon hostile rhetoric, mutual accusations and rebukes that only aggravate the situation. Altogether, none of the old approaches to conflict resolution should be used to solve modern problems. We need fresh and stereotype-free ideas. I believe Eurasia can work out and propose a constructive and positive agenda on issues relating to security, improving relations between states, economic development, social change, better administration and the search for new forces capable of driving growth. For the global community, we must be an example of a collective, innovative and constructive future based on justice, equality and respect for national sovereignty, international law and the unwavering principles of the United Nations. However, desire and will alone are not enough to follow through on this agenda. Efficient tools for this type of cooperation are required. These can be created through integration. Today there are many thriving integration projects in Eurasia. We support them and are vested in their further development. Many are aware of the fact that Russia and its partners are building the Eurasian Economic Union. The parties of the EAEU have similar views on Eurasian integration and it is very important to us that the leaders of Belarus, Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan are participating in this forum. We welcome China’s One Belt, One Road initiative. By proposing this initiative, President Xi Jinping has demonstrated an example of a creative approach toward fostering integration in energy, infrastructure, transport, industry and humanitarian collaboration, about which I have just talked at length. I believe that by adding together the potential of all the integration formats like the EAEU, the OBOR, the SCO and the ASEAN, we can build the foundation for a larger Eurasian partnership. This is the approach that, we believe, should be applied to the agenda proposed today by the People’s Republic of China. We would welcome the involvement of our European colleagues from the EU states in this partnership. This would make it truly concordant, balanced and all encompassing, and will allow us to realise a unique opportunity to create a common cooperation framework from the Atlantic to the Pacific – for the first time in history. Colleagues, It is necessary that already today, we start acting upon the development strategy of the large Eurasian partnership. Thus, we can set an ambitious goal of making the flow of goods across as expedient, convenient and unhindered as possible. Just now, in his address, President Xi Jinping spoke about lifting bureaucratic barriers for trade flows between China and Kazakhstan. We can see it happening along other routes. Of course, it is much easier and more efficient to work with the most advanced logistics technology while minimising associated administrative costs. In achieving this goal, we can rely on the substantial and valuable experience of the World Trade Organisation. Let me remind you that last February, WTO’s Trade Facilitation Agreement came into effect. Of course, we must expand such agreements and develop a more robust Eurasian agreement on facilitating trade. Additionally, I would like to stress that Russia is not only willing to be a reliable trading partner but also seeks to invest in the creation of joint ventures and new production capacities in partnering states, to invest in industrial facilities, sales and services. It is important that entrepreneurs and business people in our countries earn money and achieve success, create competitive technology and production alliances together. In order for this cooperation to be efficient, we must seek unification and, eventually, develop common standards, technical regulations for traditional industrial and agricultural goods as well as new hi-tech products. Furthermore, it is necessary to eliminate infrastructure restrictions for integration – mainly by creating a system of modern and well-connected transport corridors. Russia with its unique geographic location is willing to engage in this joint activity. We are consistently upgrading our maritime, railway and road infrastructure, expanding the capacity of the Baikal-Amur Mainline and the Trans-Siberian Railway, investing significant resources into improvements to the Northeast Passage in order for it to become a global competitive transport artery. If we look at the bigger picture, the infrastructure projects within the EAEU and the One Belt, One Road initiative in conjunction with the Northeast Passage can completely reconfigure transportation on the Eurasian continent, which is the key to exploring new territory and intensifying economic and investment activity. Let us pave these roads to development and prosperity together. Large projects in infrastructure, energy, transport and modern hi-tech industries certainly require substantial private investments. Therefore, it is important to create convenient, clear and predictable conditions for investors and to establish the smooth exchange of best practices. For example, we have used the experience of the Asia-Pacific countries to develop preferential terms for investors in the Priority Development Areas in Russia’s Far East. We expect newly established financial institutions like New Development Bank and the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank to offer a supporting hand to private investors. And of course, quality integration is only possible with the support of strong human capital, qualified professionals, advanced technology and research. To create this foundation, we propose that the development of joint education platforms be stepped up and that the interaction between universities and business schools be strengthened. My invitation remains open for joint work within major scientific centres and research projects, including the development of large international research facilities and laboratories for collective use. Colleagues, It is obvious that the ideas and initiatives of this forum’s participants require further discussion. And we are certainly willing to get involved in these talks. Let me take this opportunity to invite political figures and representatives of civic and business communities to visit Russia this year, to attend the St Petersburg International Economic Forum in June and the Eastern Economic Forum in Vladivostok in September. On a final note, I would like to stress that Russia does not simply view the future of the Eurasian partnership as the mere establishment of new ties between states and economies. This partnership must shift the political and economic landscape of the continent and bring peace, stability, prosperity and a new quality of life to Eurasia. Understandably our citizens need security, confidence in the future and the opportunity to be productive and improve the wealth and well-being of their families. It is our common duty and responsibility to ensure they have these opportunities. In this respect, the greater Eurasia is not an abstract geopolitical arrangement but, without exaggeration, a truly civilisation-wide project looking toward the future. I believe that by maintaining the spirit of cooperation, we can achieve that future. I want to thank President Xi Jinping for this well-timed initiative, promising such splendid prospects for cooperation. Thank you for your attention. I wish you all good luck in the tasks that we’ll take on together. Geography People's
Mr President, Ms Mayor Vera Baboun, Mr Bandak, friends, It is a great pleasure to take part, together with President of Palestine Mr Abbas, in the official opening of this multifunctional centre, built by Russia in Bethlehem. Your city now has a modern centre, complete with the latest equipment, and with a music school, sports school, and a business centre. This gives Palestine’s young people a new opportunity to develop their talents and abilities, learn more about Russian history, culture, and musical traditions, and train in wrestling and other sports. The centre’s opening is a notable milestone in developing mutually advantageous relations between Russia and Palestine and is evidence of the genuine friendship between our peoples and countries. Our cooperation goes back a long way. In the 19 th century and early 20th century, Russia built dozens of schools and hospitals in Palestine. Thousands of Palestinians studied in the Soviet Union and Russia to become doctors, teachers and specialists in other fields, and serve their people honourably. Russia today allocates more than 100 state scholarships for students from Palestine every year. I would like to note that a Russian science and culture centre has been successfully running in Bethlehem for several years now, as has a comprehensive Russian-Palestinian friendship school, where teaching is in the Russian language. In this sense, the newly opened centre will form another prominent part of the ‘Russian neighbourhood’. We are grateful to Palestine’s government and to Mr Abbas for the support he has given these projects. I would like once again to congratulate you on the centre’s opening and from all my heart wish the residents of Bethlehem and all Palestinians peace and prosperity. Thank you for your attention. Mahmoud Abbas : Mr President, my friend, First of all, I would like to express my heartfelt gratitude and appreciation to you, to the Russian Government and the friendly Russian people for your position and your consistent support for Palestinians and the Palestinian problem. Also, I would like to thank you for this multifunctional complex, which has been built on your instructions. It is a great joy for us. We are grateful to you for making this present to Bethlehem and to the Palestinian people and for supporting the development of our cooperation in many spheres, including the economy, sport and culture. Seeking to express my personal gratitude and the gratitude of the Palestinian people, we have decided to establish a governing body for this centre. The centre will be called the Vladimir Putin Association for the Development of Business and Cultural Cooperation in Palestine. As you know, we have decided to allocate a land plot for this centre on the street that bears your name, Vladimir Putin Street, which we opened during your previous visit to Bethlehem in 2012. In this context, we have resolved to create a governing body that will be comprised of top professionals who will be responsible for running this centre. The opening of this centre is a great pride for us. We see it as a symbol of the further development and strengthening of bilateral relations in many areas. It will take its rightful place among the projects we have implemented. I am referring above all to the Russian School, the Russian Culture Centre in Bethlehem and the Russian Museum and Park Complex in Jericho. I would also like to say that the Russian Government has decided to finance the renovation of the historical centre of Star Street, which leads to the square adjacent to the Church of the Nativity. In conclusion, I would like to thank everyone who helped us implement this project, primarily the Presidential Executive Office, the Russian company that implemented this project, the Russian Embassy and representative office in Palestine, as well as all Palestinians who helped us. Mr President, thank you.
Russia has a vital interest in maintaining stability in the post-Soviet space. We are well aware of the threats that exist on our borders, and we will probably touch upon this later. I will not speak now about our western borders, but in the east, we have Afghanistan. The fewer the threats Russia has in the various directions, and the more effective our common actions, the better. We should not forget that there are threats today that do not stop at borders but are trans-national in nature. They include terrorism, organised crime and drug trafficking, and we can fight these threats effectively only if we combine our efforts. We have proposed joining forces on a global scale. I made this call at the UN, as you may know. At the regional level, we can achieve this, and, as we can see, we are doing so quite effectively. An organisation such as the CSTO has certainly justified its existence. This year, we are celebrating the 25 th anniversary of the CSTO treaty signing, and also the 15 th anniversary of the CSTO’s existence as an organisation. These important milestones give us the opportunity to look back and assess ecerything we have achieved in the security area. This must be a critical analysis. We need to make changes if necessary, take additional steps to coordinate actions and strengthen our legal base. Overall, I strongly believe that security cooperation is a priority for both us and our partners, and all participants in the Collective Security Organisation benefit from this work. First on the list would be terrorism and extremism of all kinds. I would include drug trafficking and trans-border crime, and we cannot forget about the more global threats, of course. We know the various theories being tried out around the world, causing serious destabilisation in the affected regions. We cannot allow such a thing to happen in our region, of course, and we will take the necessary measures in Russia itself and support our CSTO partners. This is a very dangerous area for us all. We already know examples, tragic examples, when militants crossed the border from Afghanistan. I am not talking here about drug trafficking and criminals infiltrating our countries, but about large armed groups entering our territories. There was a case in Kyrgyzstan several years ago, for example, when the armed forces had to be deployed to fight these armed groups. We are conscious of the great danger this poses to our own country, the Russian Federation. It is for this reason as well that we maintain our 201 st military base in Tajikistan. This is an important element of stability in the region. The biggest threat is terrorism, and the terrorist threat coming from Afghanistan is very serious indeed. However, as far as the Taliban are concerned, many countries have contacts of one form or another with this organisation . Of course, they have many radicals in their ranks, but together with our partners, including UN representatives, Yes, this is so. Sadly, drug trafficking is increasing, production volumes, if we can speak in these terms, are increasing too. A third of Afghanistan’s rural territory is under Taliban control today. We see that ever more frequently the so-called international coalition has to engage in various combat operations, and we even hear talk of plans for a full return of the US military contingent to Afghanistan. This is related to the complicated processes underway in that country. Yes, this is a very important area and we are bolstering our cooperation here at Kyrgyzstan’s initiative. Last year, we took appropriate decisions to intensify work in this area. We hold frequent joint exercises and our border guards and intelligence and security services are not simply in contact with each other, but work together and exchange information on a permanent basis. We are establishing a data bank and actively using it in our joint practical efforts. Everything we do through the CSTO is translated into practice. This is our daily joint work. Regarding border guard services in particular, we work together with our colleagues and also supply them with arms and equipment and assist with training. First of all, we have not yet achieved this victory. To achieve it, we must join efforts, not only within the CSTO, but also in a broader international coalition. Otherwise, there will be scant chance of success. Regarding your question, I would certainly like to see this victory achieved, and achieved in such a way that no one returns to our country. Our contingent in Syria pursues precisely this goal. Our service personnel are fighting terrorists on foreign soil, not Russian soil, precisely to ensure that none of them returns here. When this does happen from time to time, it is further evidence that we made the right choice and that we must do all we can to minimise any possible return. This is my first point. Secondly, you are right in that, according to various estimates, around 20,000 foreign militants are fighting in Syria, and nearly 10,000 of them come from the CIS countries. Various estimates put the figure at around 9,000, of which slightly less than half come from Russia and around 5,000 from the Central Asian countries, mostly from the CSTO member-states. The threat is therefore very real and very serious. We are aware of it, understand the scale of this threat, and will do everything possible to minimise it. We are working on it. Our special operations forces have been working as they do, with the results we know, only in the past year, in other words, after the CRRF was established. Generally, well-trained units went into the CRRF, but the Russian special operations forces are really a new chapter in our military development. I can say with all responsibility that we never had forces of this calibre before, not even during the Soviet era. These are top-class professionals, well equipped, and able to work effectively in very difficult conditions. These people are highly motivated and professional. I know, of course, what they do and how they do it. They are true patriots. Of course, we will do everything possible to ensure that the CRRF also learn the latest methods and have the latest equipment available to our special operations forces. We will share our experience, of course, with our CSTO allies. NATO was established during the Cold War, at a time of confrontation between two blocs. Things have changed today. There is no division along ideological lines between countries today, including in Europe. However, NATO still bears the birthmarks of the era that bore it and continues to live in a paradigm of bloc-based confrontation. It is a highly ideological organisation, despite the various statements about the need to change in current conditions. We have heard many such declarations, but see no real transformation. The CSTO was created in a new situation, to address today’s threats. I I do not remember saying that it was an ISIS provocation. I did infer that it was a provocation, but I did not say who staged it. There are several possibilities. To give the final answer, this event must be thoroughly investigated. There is no other option. And this is exactly what we have proposed doing. Moreover, everyone knows very well that a major project was completed at the Russian and US initiative to liquidate the chemical weapons in the possession of the Syrian authorities. They have done their part of the job; they have implemented all their obligations, as far as we know. A specialised UN body has confirmed this. But in case of doubts a verification inspection can be organised. You know that this can be done easily using modern technology, methods of analysis and equipment. If the authorities used chemical weapons, there will be traces of the powder on weapons and in the area. Modern technology can surely detect them. Yes, it was completely unexpected, aside from the fact, of course, that we learned about it a few hours in advance. We could say that at the working level, the degree of trust has dropped, especially in the military area. It has not improved and has probably worsened. Firstly, I understand our citizens’ concerns. There have been a good many events that could be seen as a threat to national security coming from militants infiltrating our territory via the former Soviet republics, and not just Central Asia, but other republics as well. Some of these militants come from further abroad. Today’s world is such that it is impossible to completely end migration. This is true not only for Russia, but for practically every country. The issue is how to organise strict control over migration flows. Secondly, the vast majority of people who come to Russia do so to work and help their families. The creation of the Eurasian Economic Union implies free movement of labour, capital, services and goods. This is a great advantage for our countries’ development, a great opportunity. In today’s world, economic success or failure can decide the fate of entire regions. This is therefore a key issue for our life and our future. Economic success is possible only with integration. This is the way today’s world works. It is therefore not possible, simply for objective reasons, to include or exclude something. The security services need to work better, more efficiently, and as we work on economic processes, we must not forget our cooperation on security. This was why we established the CSTO. You mentioned Nazarbayev’s decision to revoke the Kazakhstani citizenship of those guilty of involvement in ISIS’ criminal activity. Under the Russian Constitution, we cannot revoke anyone’s citizenship, but we can overturn the decisions that served as the basis for granting someone Russian citizenship. We are in consultation with our legal experts and I think that this decision will be taken very soon. This is not true, absolutely not. Frankly speaking, sanctions have nothing or very little to do with this. The really serious problem they encountered is due to the changes in the global market. They have definitely affected the Russian economy, but these negative changes have also influenced our partners’ economies. They did not do so through Russia, but directly. Of course, there is a degree of interdependence, including our partners’ dependence on the Russian economy, but our economy depends on them, too. However, the obvious part is the advantages offered by these integration processes, if they are managed properly. I believe that we are acting carefully and in an economically balanced manner. We are not trying to leap forward, as some EU countries have done. They introduced a common currency and adopted many other decisions before it was established that some economies cannot operate properly if they are attached to the strong euro. They cannot use monetary instruments to weaken the national currency, which would give them room for manoeuvre in a difficult situation. If you look at countries such as Kyrgyzstan and Armenia, for example, which joined the Eurasian Economic Union later, the benefits are obvious. Their trade with us has increased rapidly. I think Kyrgyzstan’s trade is up 2.5-fold, and Armenia’s trade has increased by 80 percent. This is one thing. The other one is that in value terms, some of the figures might seem cause for concern. This is due to exchange rate differences. However, in physical terms, trade has not fallen; moreover, it is growing. Another very important point, in my view, is that our trade structure has improved. The share of mineral raw materials and mineral goods has fallen, and the share of machines, equipment, high-tech and financial services has increased. This is very important and shows that the integration organisation and the instruments we have established do help us to improve our economies’ structure. This is the main road and the main goal of our development. What we want is a high-tech economy with good, well-paid jobs. The simplest but most essential things – happiness, health, and prosperity. As we have been discussing our organisation responsible for peace and security, I also wish peace, and confidence that our armed forces and common efforts will preserve this peace.
Mr Mirziyoyev, Friends and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, Let me start by noting that this, your first visit to Russia, has the highest status of a state visit. We see and value the attention that you have given to our bilateral relations since your first days in office as President of Uzbekistan. It is no exaggeration to say that these relations really do have a particular nature of friendship, partnership and alliance. Our multifaceted bilateral cooperation is cemented by our long centuries of common history and rich traditions, traditions of mutual understanding, cooperation, support, and the invaluable capital of cultural, spiritual and human ties. I particularly positively assess the results of our talks today. We worked effectively, productively, reached some important agreements, and outlined long-term plans for cooperation in the economy, humanitarian ties, and on ensuring security and stability in Central Asia. The Joint Statement we signed today reflects our common desire to continue developing bilateral ties on the principles of good-neighbourliness, strategic partnership and alliance. I know that the Uzbek people have a
Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Niinistö, Mr Johannesson, I wholeheartedly welcome all of you to Russia, to Arkhangelsk. Finland is our very good neighbour and it has very good experience in organising such important events. The Helsinki process, as you know, began in Helsinki, where very important documents were signed. In this respect, I believe Finland is a very appropriate country and Helsinki is a very appropriate venue for such events. However, the President of Finland has just said that such events should be well prepared, and prepared by both sides. If this happens, we will be pleased to participate and I will be pleased to take part in such an event. If not, then such a meeting can take place within the framework of our usual meetings of this kind, like the G-20, I think. No, nothing is likely to change our priorities in this region. There are several factors here. First, even now, companies operating in this region account for 10 percent of Russia’s GDP and their share is constantly growing. Among the essential circumstances are the growing changes and greater efficiency of new technologies. Today we received the first tanker in the newly built port of Sabetta. It is an absolutely new port that was built from scratch in the Arctic zone, in an empty space, so to speak. Until very recently, it would have been impossible to do this with such quality. The ship that entered this port today is all about modern technology. It breaks through ice up to two metres thick like an icebreaker. This is all about new technologies. The second essential factor that bolsters optimism on our part is climate change. Now President Niinistö spoke about this, and he spoke very convincingly. The period of navigation along the Northern Sean Route has been significantly expanding recently. This goes to show that transport capabilities are improving. As you may know, yesterday, I visited an extreme northern region, Franz Josef Land, 900 kilometres from the North Pole. Our specialists, our scientists there told me that they are observing the constant melting of the ice and glaciers, and the President of Finland also spoke about this. This shows that climate change provides more favourable conditions for economic activity in this region. If these trends continue, we can see what will happen. Today, 1.4 million tonnes of goods are shipped along the Northern Sea Route. By 2035, this will be 30 million tonnes. This is growth for you. As part of Yamal SPG, one of our major projects , an absolutely unique new plant has been built. It is nearing completion. In the old days, it was even hard to imagine such things, but it will be up and running by the end of the year. It is as good as finished. It will produce 16.5 million tonnes of liquefied natural gas. The volume of shipments via the Northern Sea Route will immediately quadruple. Importantly, First of all, thank God, there are Americans here. I can see Ambassador Tefft. Welcome. Second, you know, what I am going to say now may not be very popular, but I believe President Niinistö said they will comply with all the Paris agreements. Russia is also determined to do so, just as we complied with the Kyoto Protocol. However, as Sauli said, warming will continue all the same, and this is definitely the case. What is the question? Look, as I already said, yesterday I visited Franz Josef Land. There was an Austrian researcher working there, Mr Pyer. Then he left. He described the glaciers there, among other things. About 20 years later, the future king of Italy went there and took some photos and showed them to Mr Pyer. The latter had a photographic memory. In addition, he had drawn maps, the maps of glaciers, and he discovered that during those 20 years the number of glaciers had declined. In other words, warming had already begun. There were no such man-made factors, such emissions, at that time, but warming had already begun. The question is not how to prevent it. I agree with those who believe that the question is not how to prevent it, because this is impossible. This may have to do with some global cycles on earth or even some planetary cycles. The question is how to adapt to it. Mr Johannesson spoke about the distribution of fish, where they go, where they appear. Research is necessary. The question is how do mankind and people who live in this region adapt to it. So the proposals and positions of those who disagree with their opponents, including – I do not even know the name of the gentleman that you referred to… they are not so silly after all. What did he lead in America? May God give him wellbeing and success, but we should all listen to and hear each other, and only then can optimal solutions to these problems be found, and of course they exist. I do not think we should talk about concerns but rather about the need for compromises. I remember that Mr George Bush Jr and I used to have a very good personal relationship. I knew about his position. When he came to power, he was against these actions, including within the framework of the Kyoto Protocols. We eventually reached compromises. I believe that the same will happen now. I would not dramatize anything and would not use these factors, which are of global importance, for political infighting in the United States. I think I will permit myself to respond to what Mr Niinistö has said about soot emissions. It will be the third time I will be referring to my yesterday’s trip to the islands, where we inspected glacier ice. This glacier formed hundreds or even thousands or millions of years ago. In one of its layers, we saw soot sediments – you will see it, too, if you go there. This sediment is thousands of years old, it was deposited at a time when there were no plants emitting soot into the atmosphere. I would like to tell you that several Etna eruptions do more damage than the humankind’s current emissions. We need to carefully analyse this information. I would like to comment on what my colleague, the President of Iceland, has said about working with the researchers. What guarantees can there be? Only an insurance policy can provide a guarantee, while we must work to find a technological solution and take responsible decisions at the government level. Russia has a targeted government programme on Arctic development that is focused on preserving biological diversity and protecting the environment, nature and the interests of the indigenous people. We simply need to use modern technology not just to produce mineral resources but also to protect the environment. I have spoken here about a project we are implementing jointly with seven other countries, Yamal LNG. It aims to produce 16.5 million tonnes of liquefied natural gas a year. Of these seven countries, two are shareholders of the company that is implementing the project, and several other countries are helping us with project management, technology and equipment. Their technology allows us to implement the project without any emissions or wastes, because everything is put to use or removed to the mainland and eliminated in an eco-friendly manner. If we use only such technologies, nothing will threaten the world. I knew it would end this way. Seeing the positive spirit of this discussion on Arctic issues, I really would not like to see this platform taken over by Russian-American bilateral issues, but out of respect for you, Geoff, and out of respect for your company, CNBC, which no doubt gave you this instruction, I’ve simply no choice but to go along. First of all, thank you for the fact that in raising this issue, when you spoke of the problem with Ukraine and Crimea, you made a distinction between Ukraine and Crimea. This is right. Now, as for the substance of your question, we have said before, and I stress again now, that we know and are certain that, as public opinion surveys show, Russia has many friends in the United States. I want to say first of all that we consider and treat the United States as a great power, with which we want to develop good partnership relations. Everything else is lies, fabrications and provocation in Russia’s regard. This is all being put to use in the domestic US agenda. What do I mean by this? Particular political forces inside the USA are playing the anti-Russian card in their own interests, in order to bolster and cement their own positions at home. I mentioned before that the US Ambassador is present here today. He has come to this forum and can meet here with all participants, with Government members, and with representatives of Russia’s big companies. We do not hinder these contacts, but on the contrary, facilitate and encourage them. But our ambassador in the United States finds his contacts restricted. Any meeting he has is met with criticism and seen as an act of espionage of some kind. What kind of absurdity is this? What is an ambassador’s job if not to meet and maintain contacts with members of the political elite, businesspeople, members of Congress and the Senate, members of the Government and Administration? Why else do we have ambassadors? This is normal diplomatic practice around the world. People are raising questions about the meetings our businesspeople and bankers have. But US businesspeople come here and meet with people here, including Russian Government members. How else are they supposed to go about their work? Of course there are contacts. I do not think it is in the American people’s interests to take to absurd levels this situation in our bilateral relations just for the sake of the internal political agenda of the moment. Do we want to break off our relations completely? They are practically at zero as it is, with bilateral trade down to around only $20 billion. Our trade was at $27 billion, which is pitifully low for two countries such as ours, and now it is down to $20 billion. Do we want to break off our diplomatic relations entirely and go back to the 1960s, to the time of the Cuban missile crisis? And where do we go from there? These people who take this irresponsible line, where are they leading us all, including the American people? I think this is a big mistake, and I certainly hope that at some point, and the sooner the better, this situation will return to normal. Now, regarding Ukraine, we know that in the USA and some other places, some hold the view that the worse the relations between Russia and Ukraine, the better it is for them, because it weakens Russia and hampers whichever integration processes that would strengthen Russia, including economically. They would rather see Russia too busy with issues on its borders with its neighbours to be able to stick its nose into international issues such as Syria, the Middle East and others. They think this is to their benefit. This is a mistake. No one benefits from this because if we attempt to restrain whichever country through whatever means, including such dangerous means as regional conflicts, this could lead to disasters on a global scale, even to global conflict. On the contrary, we must strive to resolve all conflicts, and I hope that our American partners will take this road of cooperation. Let me say again that the sooner we resolve these problems, the better. Regarding the Arctic region, we work together with our American partners in the Arctic Council. As you know, the USA currently heads the council. We worked together with the USA at the expert level to draft a decision that will be adopted soon, in Alaska, I think this is planned. This decision concerns use of joint scientific research in the Arctic region, and I think this is very important. Strange as it might sound in today’s climate, but we continue our bilateral cooperation on border matters. For example, Russian and US citizens living along the Bering Strait coasts can travel back and forth without visas. Our visa-free regime in this region continues, fortunately. This is a great help to the people living in these areas and means they can maintain contact with the friends and relatives on both sides. This is an excellent base for developing such cooperation in the future. Finally, there are concrete regional issues in which the USA and Russia both have an interest and want to see resolved. In the Bering Strait region again, for example, shipping has increased rapidly and the USA and Russia therefore both have an interest in ensuring safe shipping in this region. We also need to take action to preserve polar bear populations, for example, and, as the President of Iceland said, organise fishing, catch and use of bio-resources, and so on. This is all in our common interests. This is not to mention the tremendous opportunities we have in developing production of hydrocarbons and other minerals in the Arctic. We have excellent examples here and are working together with ExxonMobil, as you know, and with other partners on developing this region. This offers huge opportunities for Russia, for the United States, and for the entire world. I hope very much that we will arrive at this two-way street and will improve our bilateral relations for the good of both peoples and of the entire world. I think it was Reagan who once said, on the subject of tax, “ Look, we hear all these endless and groundless accusations of whatever intervention, and talk about cybersecurity. You know that we long since proposed to draft, together with the Americans, a joint agreement, a joint document – an intergovernmental agreement on cybersecurity. We proposed this, but the Americans refused. Why? Perhaps because it is more convenient for them to be able to accuse us depending on the needs of their domestic political agenda? As for speeches, whether in the Congress or in the Russian Duma, I know for a fact that we have simply informed our deputies and have repeatedly appealed to Congress and the Senate, inviting them to come to Moscow, or offering to come to Washington, in order to meet, explain, and discuss openly the key issues in our bilateral relations and on the international agenda. But we have had no response. We made two or three such proposals. Just recently, we made another such proposal, but still no answer. If some Russian businessperson goes there and speaks in Congress, fine, it is his right to speak where he pleases, and we have nothing against this. We had a businessman planning to go, and, as far as I know, he was blocked from entering the United States, on what grounds, I do not know. No one has given any explanation. Let them tell us why. Let him go to the USA and address Congress. If the law enforcement and intelligence services have genuine grounds for refusing him entry, based on evidence, we would at least understand the motivations for the decision. Anything can happen. Business is a complicated thing and all kinds of violations are possible, but we do not know the situation in this case. If there are charges against him, let them make them known. I think this would be a good signal and good practice. Let me repeat that we are ready to welcome members of Congress or the Senate here in Moscow, and we would certainly be happy to see our many American friends from the business world too, who want to work and continue to work in Russia. Welcome. We will help them. We should better listen to what the ‘hot-headed Finnish guys’ have to say. Need help? What do you mean? Our aggressive behaviour? Look, this border and military activity we are developing is taking place on Russia’s own territory. We take the view that we are acting no differently to any other country here. The United States, which is our neighbour in the Arctic, is also developing its military activity. We think its military activity does represent a threat to us, because what we are doing is local in nature, but what they are doing in Alaska is global in scale. They are developing this whole missile defence system. This system is one of the biggest security problems in the world today. It is not a purely defensive system, but is a part of nuclear capability, established at the periphery. It is not about preventing missile and nuclear strikes, but is about minimising a possible counterstrike. These are the things that are postulates today, and the experts understand this perfectly well. The United States is developing its infrastructure, developing new technology, and has withdrawn unilaterally from the ABM Treaty, which I think was the cornerstone guaranteeing strategic stability. The USA withdrew from this treaty and is now actively developing this infrastructure. What we are doing on the islands and the coast, for example, is local in nature, and, as I said, is about rebuilding infrastructure that was also used to ensure safe shipping in this region. We must work together to prevent any illegal economic use of the Arctic’s mineral and biological resources. Together, we need to combat all kinds of smuggling and piracy. We all know about piracy in southern seas, but this kind of thing happens in other parts of the world too, and we must act to prevent any negative development of events. We are not developing a military infrastructure alone, but, as I said yesterday, we are building an infrastructure that is dual and even triple purpose in nature. Our Emergency Situations Ministry will use this infrastructure, for example, along with the services responsible for preventing or minimising the consequences of possible oil spills in this environmentally fragile region. This infrastructure will also be used by our scientists studying the Arctic, and the meteorological services will use it too. We are developing a comprehensive infrastructure, including the military component. I think that this is the right direction to take. Furthermore, we are completely open in this respect and we invite others to join us in this work, including our American partners. During my visit to Finland last year, President Niinistö expressed his country’s concern over Russian aircraft flying over the Baltic Sea with their transponders off. Transponder is a device that informs the air traffic controller that there is a plane in the air, just a plane, or, in this case, a military aircraft. I promised the Finnish President that Russia would urge all countries that are engaged in military activity in the Baltic region to make it obligatory for their pilots to use transponders. Technically, this is not a simple task, because Russia and the NATO countries use different types of transponders. Hence, additional steps must be taken for these devices to work effectively and for their signals to be received by air traffic radars. We said that we were willing to do this and held a meeting on this issue in Brussels. We certainly have a shared priority. That is the fight against international terrorism. President Trump is quite right to set this task. We will certainly support this work. In my address to the United Nations on its 70 th anniversary in New York, I said that we cannot combat terrorism effectively unless we join efforts. This is not a problem that exists in some isolated place – it is a global problem. As the King of Saudi Arabia said to me one day, Islamic countries are the first victims of terrorism. That is true. Terrorism emerged long ago, many hundreds of years ago. It has upsurges now and then, and now we are seeing one of such upsurges. That is extremely dangerous. Yes, the fight against terrorism is certainly among the key items on our agenda. If Mr Tillerson visits us – I have met him on several occasions, two or three times – we will certainly discuss this issue among others. However, I must tell you, and you know it better than I do, that to make this job efficient we need interaction not only with the Department of State but also with the CIA and the Pentagon. We will not achieve any positive results without constructive teamwork with our colleagues in these fields. First, you cannot please everyone. A compromise entails mutual concessions, when the parties defer to each other. Here is a We have the Law of the Sea, an agreement on the Arctic and the Arctic Council of the eight Arctic countries, and we also coordinate common approaches with non-Arctic states. We believe that all countries have the right to work in this region. We only need to coordinate our work there and reach agreements on this. I have mentioned the Yamal LNG project. In addition to its shareholders, which include Russian, French and Chinese companies , equipment for this project is being supplied by Korean, Japanese and several other companies from seven countries. The two Chinese companies will be involved in production. US ExxonMobil, working together with Russia’s Rosneft, has discovered one of the largest Arctic deposits, Pobeda . Indian companies are involved in hydrocarbons production in the Extreme North, which is also an Arctic region. We are using their services. Our Chinese partners want to take part and are discussing their contribution to building railway lines towards deep-sea ports in Russia’s northern regions. You know, we will not prevent non-Arctic countries from helping us develop the Arctic. Moreover, we are interested in using their resources and capability for this provided they respect the standards and rules of environmental safety, the safety of biological resources and the interests of the indigenous people living in this region. This is something we can and will coordinate. In fact, we are already working to coordinate this cooperation. What can I say? I have already said that we are ready for meetings; we need to discuss the parameters, the content of these meetings. This largely depends on the American side. We can see what's happening there. I just do not want to go into this. You see, you keep dragging me into your squabbles. We can see what is happening. The newly elected President is being hampered and prevented from implementing most issues on his election agenda such as healthcare, other issues, international affairs and relations with Russia. We are simply waiting for the situation to recover and stabilise, without interfering in any way. And it seems to me, by the way, that this is the best evidence that we never ever did so. I hope it will end sometime. We will decide where we will meet, what we will discuss, these are mere technicalities. There are many questions that are long overdue, including the economy, security and regional conflicts. We are ready for this discussion. But it is necessary for the other side to show goodwill and readiness to work constructively. All these calls come amid police crackdowns such as for example on Paris protesters against the murder of one of the citizens directly in his home, a Frenchman of Chinese descent. Therefore, this kind of appeals to Russia – we believe these are politicised moves aimed at influencing the domestic political life in our country. As for our internal political developments, we consistently support anti-corruption efforts, since corruption is indeed a serious problem for us , and for other countries. This is relevant, and we are working on it, and people can see it. I personally support keeping anti-corruption issues constantly in the focus of public attention, and always take a positive view when people take note of these issues. The only thing that I think is wrong is for certain political forces to try to use this in their own interests, for self-promotion in the political arena ahead of political events such as elections rather than to improve the situation. We know perfectly well, and I We never use the “get a ticket and off you go” principle. And why should we? We never take any steps that can harm us. Americans have long been buying our rocket engines. It is advantageous to them as it saves money, including taxpayers’ money that should have gone to build their own facilities, but it is also advantageous for us because it keeps our factories working. We never make steps that damage business, damage our international relations. And we are not going to do anything of the kind here. What the previous US administration did, I think, hurts the US economy, the American people. And as the Obama administration urged the Europeans to take the same measures, it hurts the European economy, bringing down the competitiveness of the European economy, leading to hundreds of thousands of lost jobs, and it has already led to the loss of hundreds of thousands of jobs. It violates the principles of the World Trade Organisation and international rules in this area, and these are crude violations both in the economy and in human rights protection. We keep talking about human rights, incessantly, including with regard to the rallies in Moscow and other Russian cities. Yet they just imposed sanctions in connection with the Crimean events on individuals who had nothing to do with the events, they never even had the slightest idea of what was being planned, and they learnt of what was happening from the media. Yet sanctions were just imposed on them. Where are the human rights here? Their bank accounts were closed, they cannot even use funds for making transactions for their family members and so on. Well, what are we talking about? What human rights are we talking about? It means they should be observed in one place, and shouldn’t in another. There is no logic, no equal approach to these issues in the modern world. Unfortunately, we have arrived at such a degradation of international law and international relations. It should be rectified. Can this be done or not? It can, and let us strive to do it together. But this can only be done from both the sides. I can only join in with what my colleagues, President Johannesson and President Niinistö, have said. This is the right approach because the aspiration to build positive relations is the motto of the Arctic Council and of this forum. As we say, the Arctic is a space for cooperation and dialogue, and I would like very much the example of positive teamwork in this part of the world to spread elsewhere where we could address our problems using the experience of our cooperation in the Arctic. As for the Arctic, we certainly see Russia’s future in it, as well as the future of the global economy. It possesses huge untouched reserves of natural resources, and it is at the crossroads of many international interests. If we find the tools of tackling our problems here, it will inspire us to address problems in other parts of the world by similar means. In conclusion, I would like to thank my colleagues, as I said in the beginning, for having found the time in their schedule to come to Russia. I would also like to thank you as moderator. You have moved us, so to say, to discuss problems outside the Arctic region. As a matter of fact, this is what makes such discussions topical and very interesting. Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to welcome you to the Kremlin for this presentation of letters of credence. Present here today are representatives of 18 countries in different parts of the world, each with its own national interests, history, and vision of the world order today. Let me stress that Russia has always respected this. In our efforts to advance our own foreign policy priorities and approaches, we always try to listen to our partners, hear what they are saying, take their views and opinions into account, and work patiently to find compromise solutions. Russia does not divide its partners into big and small. Every country has its own value in our eyes, and with every country we are ready to pursue an equal dialogue and build cooperation on a constructive basis of mutual respect. This includes our cooperation on strengthening international stability and security, resolving complex global issues, settling regional conflicts, and addressing dangerous threats, of which international terrorism is certainly the greatest. Russia opposes attempts to destabilise and weaken international relations, as this could lead to a chaotic and ever less controllable slide towards greater tension in the world. We support joint action to ensure a democratic and fair world order based on strict respect for the norms of international law, the United Nations Charter, recognition of the unquestionable value of cultural and civilizational diversity, national sovereignty, and the right of all countries to decide their futures freely, without external pressure. The international situation does indeed require improvement. This calls for restraint, wisdom and responsibility. I would like to reiterate that Russia supports joint efforts to resolve the real problems facing the entire international community today. Ladies and gentlemen, in representing your countries here in Russia, I hope that you will do all you can to develop our bilateral and multilateral cooperation in a spirit of partnership, equality and mutual understanding. Russia is known for its hospitality and for its openness and sincerity towards its partners and towards those who come here to visit or to work. Let me assure you that you, as your countries’ ambassadors, will receive due respect and attention. We are ready to provide all the necessary conditions for your work and life away from home. You can count on the support of our officials, agencies, business community, and the general public. No one will try to avoid or shun you, fearing for their reputations or careers. Russia is a free, open and self-respecting country, and this means that you will have every opportunity to establish contacts of all kinds, as this is an essential part of the normal work of all diplomatic missions, ambassadors, and diplomats in general. Ladies and gentlemen, In keeping with tradition, I would like to say a few words about our relations with each of your countries. Our cooperation with Guatemala is not so intensive or diverse, but we seek to develop our ties, establish a constructive political dialogue, and work together on expanding mutually advantageous trade. We see that the Guatemalan government shares this desire and we are therefore certain that our cooperation has a good future. The Republic of Senegal plays a constructive role in resolving problems on the African continent, particularly in its capacity as the country presiding over the New Partnership for Africa programme. We seek to intensify our bilateral cooperation in energy, fishing and other areas. Senegal is a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council this year, and we will therefore continue our close cooperation within the UN. Brazil is Russia’s important strategic partner in Latin America. Our countries have a good level of cooperation in trade and the economy, science and technology, and the humanitarian sphere. We work closely within the BRICS group and the G20. We look forward to President Michel Temer’s visit to Russia this summer. Our relations with the Kingdom of Belgium go back a long way. This year, we mark the 165 th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic ties. We would like to develop our bilateral cooperation more actively, to reinvigorate our trade and investment, carry out new joint projects in energy, industry and construction, and deepen our interregional cooperation. Our multifaceted cooperation with the Republic of Costa Rica in trade and the economy, education and culture continues its steady development. Our foreign ministries have regular contacts. I am certain that if we work together, we can continue developing our relations. Our relations with Turkey are steadily returning to normal, to the benefit of both countries. President of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdogan visited Russia on March 10 for what was a very productive meeting of the High-Level Bilateral Cooperation Council, which gave particular attention to carrying out big energy projects such as construction of the Turkish Stream gas pipeline and the Akkuyu nuclear power plant. We outlined further plans regarding the fight against terrorism in Syria and a political solution to the conflict there. Energetic efforts by Russia and Turkey were very instrumental in bringing about a ceasefire between the Syrian government forces and the armed opposition. We know the role Turkey played in this and value it highly. This made it possible to organise the peace negotiations on Syria in Astana. We value our all-round cooperation with the Republic of Peru. Peru is one of our traditional partners in Latin America. I had substantive talks with President of Peru Pedro Pablo Kuczynski at the APEC forum last year, and we both expressed our desire to broaden our trade and investment ties, military-technical cooperation, and relations in other areas. It is important now to translate the results of these talks into action. Mutual understanding, goodwill and a similarity in approaches to current international issues characterise Russia’s relations with Nepal. It is good to see that the constructive nature of our ties does not depend on global political considerations of the moment. This enables us to work together with success on our bilateral agenda and pursue fruitful cooperation within the UN and other organisations. Russia continues providing assistance to our neighbour and partner Afghanistan in its efforts to reach national conciliation and establish itself as a peaceful, independent, stable and economically independent country, free of terrorism and drugs. We will continue enhancing our ties in various areas and helping to develop Afghanistan’s human resource capacity. We see good prospects for broadening our mutually advantageous cooperation with Iraq in different areas, including the energy sector. We support the Iraqi authorities in their efforts to counter international terrorism and extremism, and we support Iraq’s continued unity and territorial integrity, taking into account the interests of all ethnic and religious groups. Our relations with Israel are genuinely intensive and multifaceted in nature. I have met with Prime Minister Netanyahu three times over the recent months. We recently held very constructive and substantive talks in Moscow. I hope that the agreements reached then will enable us to further develop our cooperation in trade and the economy, agriculture, and advanced technology. As you may know, we agreed to continue our useful dialogue on regional and global issues, in the interests of reaching fair, comprehensive and lasting peace in the Middle East. We attach great importance to developing our cooperation with Tunisia in trade and the economy, the military-technical and humanitarian areas. We support the Tunisian people’s desire to live in peace and security and will do all we can to support the Tunisian government in the fight against terrorism. Russia’s cooperation with the Republic of Benin is also friendly in nature. We seek to develop our ties in a wide range of areas, including coordination in resolving current regional problems. We note Benin’s active position on efforts to prevent radicalism and extremism in Western Africa. We have mutually advantageous financial and investment ties with the State of Qatar, and we pursue a dialogue on important issues on the regional agenda, including the fight against terrorism and settling conflicts in the Middle East and North Africa, as well as the situation on the global hydrocarbons market. We value the level of trust we have achieved with the Qatari government. There are also useful contacts between the organising committees preparing the football World Cup events that will take place in Russia and in Qatar. Our cooperation with the Swiss Confederation has been traditionally built on the principles of mutual respect and consideration for each other’s views. We value greatly your country’s neutral status and its authority as an unbiased mediator in the search for solutions to international conflicts and disputes. We are satisfied with the nature of our friendly ties with the Republic of Chile. We have established a partnership within the UN, APEC and other international organisations. We are developing our economic, trade and investment ties on a mutually advantageous basis. Kazakhstan is our reliable friend and strategic ally. My recent talks with President Nursultan Nazarbayev reaffirmed our mutual desire to develop our cooperation in different areas on the basis of our Agreement on Good-Neighbourliness and Alliance in the 21 st Century. We work together actively within the CIS, the Eurasian Economic Union, CSTO, and the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation. We highly value President Nazarbayev’s leading role in the integration process underway in the post-Soviet area. In June, Russia will take part in the EXPO 2017 International Exhibition, and we look forward to hosting our Kazakhstani partners in Chelyabinsk in autumn for the traditional annual Interregional Cooperation Forum. We value greatly Kazakhstan’s contribution to organising and hosting the negotiations on Syria in Astana. We share centuries-old ties of friendship and mutual understanding with Armenia. President Serzh Sargsyan’s visit yesterday once again showed that Russia and Armenia are reliable allies, supporting each other and working together to further the Eurasian integration process. Our countries are successfully developing their cooperation in the economy, trade, investment, and the military-technical sector. We are broadening our contacts in tourism, culture, science and education. Our countries’ regions are developing close cooperation ties. Russia is ready to act as a mediator and make every effort to help resolve regional conflicts. Ladies and gentlemen, In conclusion, I sincerely want to wish you every success in your responsible work. I hope that your work and stay in Russia will leave with good and pleasant impressions. Thank you very much for your attention. See also High-Level Russian-Turkish Cooperation Council meeting March 10, 2017 Working visit to Peru. APEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting November 19 − 21, 2016 Meeting with Prime Minister of Israel Benjamin Netanyahu March 9, 2017 Working visit to Kazakhstan February 27, 2017 Meeting with President of Armenia Serzh Sargsyan March 15, 2017