Mr President, friends, I would like to extend a wholehearted welcome to the participants and hosts of the 20 th anniversary Russia-Kazakhstan Interregional Cooperation Forum, which is taking place in Ufa. Regional ties are absolutely important. In fact, they are the foundation that makes the progressive and sustainable development of our bilateral relations possible. It makes absolute sense that the most recently held Russia-Kazakhstan regional forums have been held concurrently with the top-level visits. Notably, during today’s talks with President of Kazakhstan Tokayev, the issues of strengthening mutually beneficial partnerships between the constituent entities of the Russian Federation and the regions of the Republic of Kazakhstan took the centre stage. We have approved a large-scale programme of interregional and cross-border cooperation, which includes about 150 joint initiatives aimed at creating favourable conditions for the comprehensive development of the regions of the two countries, improving the quality of life, and diversifying Russia-Kazakhstan economic ties. Your Forum is also devoted to trade and investment cooperation between Russia and Kazakhstan, and as far as we know, you are discussing in detail its various aspects ranging from building up cross-border trade and investment and expanding industrial cooperation to developing logistics infrastructure and improving transport connectivity and boosting tourism and youth exchanges. We discussed this today as well. Representatives of 30 constituent entities of the Russian Federation and 13 Kazakh regions have gathered in Ufa. These regions are most widely involved in practical activities to expand bilateral ties. The overall commitment of all Forum participants to achieving concrete results and seeking to implement new projects is critical. This is evidenced, in particular, by an impressive set of interregional agreements, memorandums, and business contracts scheduled for signing. Importantly, Kazakhstan has firmly established itself as our country’s key economic partner. In turn, Russia is Kazakhstan’s second largest investment partner and foreign trade counterparty. As of the end of last year, bilateral trade reached a record high at nearly $30 billion, and in January-September of this year, it exceeded the $20 billion mark. Moreover, business transactions between the border regions of the two countries account for a significant portion of mutual trade. Russia is among the largest investors in Kazakhstan’s economy as well. The total amount of Russian accumulated capital investment in Kazakhstan stands at $13 billion. Currently, about 60 large joint investment projects are being implemented in machine building, the chemical industry, and agriculture. Notably, the regions of the two countries make a significant contribution to implementing them. Our companies from the Urals, Volga, and Siberian Federal Districts are actively engaged in Kazakhstan's energy development programmes. In April, an intergovernmental agreement between Russia and Kazakhstan was formalised, stipulating the construction of new contemporary power plants in the regional centres of Kokshetau, Semey, and Ust-Kamenogorsk. A joint project to upgrade hydroelectric generation facilities on the Kazakh segment of the Irtysh River is presently under consideration. The Russian company, RusHydro, expressing interest in participation, possesses extensive expertise in the construction of hydroelectric power stations in full compliance with environmental safety standards and sustainable water management practices. Rostselmash has effectively localised the manufacturing of tractors and combine harvesters within enterprises situated in the Akmola Region. Kazakhstan enjoys a continuing supply of components and spare parts for Russian and collaboratively manufactured agricultural machinery icluding from the Rostov and Chelyabinsk Regions. In September, the production of engine components for KAMAZ lorries commenced in the Kostanay Region, with the enterprise anticipated to achieve its full operational capacity in the first quarter of 2025. In the Karaganda Region, the production of car tyres has been initiated with Tatneft's involvement. A Russian-Kazakhstani enterprise producing mineral fertilisers is operational at the Karatau phosphorite deposit in southern Kazakhstan. In February, production of thermal insulation materials, under the Russian brand TekhnoNikol, began at the Kairat industrial zone in the Almaty Region. A polyethylene plant is currently under construction in the Atyrau Region, with its products intended for distribution not only within the regions of Russia and Kazakhstan but also to third countries’ markets. This commodity is in high demand globally. The regional authorities are vigorously supporting efforts at the governmental level in Russia and Kazakhstan to establish a unified transport infrastructure, as extensively discussed today. They aim to optimise logistical corridors and enhance the traceability of goods. The eastern route of the International North–South Transport Corridor, extending from Russia and Belarus to the Indian Ocean coast, traverses Kazakhstan. Since the year's commencement, over one million tonnes of cargo have been transported via this corridor. Interregional collaboration in science and innovation is advancing dynamically. For instance, researchers from Moscow's Kurchatov Institute and Tomsk Polytechnic University are engaged in work on the Kazakhstan Material Testing Tokamak. In concert with their Kazakh counterparts, they are conducting pioneering research in fusion, physics, plasma, and advanced energy sources. Numerous educational institutions in Moscow, St. Petersburg, the Volga Region, Siberia, and the Urals maintain robust connections with Kazakh partners. Russian universities are instrumental in training highly skilled personnel for Kazakhstan's economy, with approximately 60,000 Kazakh students currently pursuing studies in our country. Overall, Russia and Kazakhstan possess a wealth of experience in constructive collaboration, presenting extensive prospects for further cooperative endeavours. We anticipate that the regions will persist in making substantial contributions to the development of the Russian-Kazakh comprehensive partnership. I am confident that the President of Kazakhstan shares my sentiment that the leadership of both countries will continue to endorse all your beneficial initiatives. I wish the participants of the Ufa Forum every success and the very best. Thank you for your attention. President of Kazakhstan Kassym-Jomart Tokayev Tokayev Kassym-
Events Article by Vladimir Putin in the Kazakhstanskaya Pravda newspaper, Russia – Kazakhstan: a Forward-Looking Alliance Demanded by Life November 27, 2024 00:00 On the eve of my regular state visit to the Republic of Kazakhstan, I would like to share my vision of the current state and future of the relations between our two countries on the pages of the authoritative Kazakhstanskaya Pravda newspaper. See also On November 27–28, President of Russia will make a state visit to Kazakhstan November 26, 2024 The cooperation between Russia and Kazakhstan has been a genuine alliance, which continues to develop actively in all directions. Our partnership is underpinned by traditions of friendship, good neighbourliness and mutual assistance and relies on unwavering principles of equality and consideration of each other's interests. The peoples of Russia and Kazakhstan are connected by the bonds of similar cultural, spiritual and moral values, centuries of living in one State, as well as shared achievements and victories. The strong good personal relationship that Kassym-Jomart Tokayev Tokayev Kassym-Jomart President of the Republic of Kazakhstan , President of the Republic of Kazakhstan and I have developed after the years of joint work, are yet another proof of the level of our two States’ ties. We regularly call each other and meet in various formats. We constantly coordinate our positions on pressing bilateral, as well as on regional and global issues, and make plans for the future. The most important thing is that both President Tokayev and I have always sought specific results and tried to do our utmost to ensure the best possible conditions to enable further steady development of Russian-Kazakh cooperation, the prosperity of our countries, and the improving of the quality of life of our citizens. Russia is one of Kazakhstan's major economic partners. Our states have actively supported Eurasian economic integration and were among the founders of the Eurasian Economic Union, where we have been developing a common market of goods, services and capital, removing regulatory and trade barriers and creating a common transport and logistics infrastructure. All of this enables us to cooperate effectively in various economic areas and substantially benefits our countries. The impressive volume of our bilateral trade speaks for itself. Last year it reached a new peak hitting the USD 28 billion mark, and already exceeded USD 20 billion between January and September 2024. Our bilateral trade has been constantly diversifying, with the share of higher value-added non-commodity goods growing continuously. Besides, settlements in national currencies have played an increasing role, which has helped protect business transactions between our countries from the negative impact of external, including political, factors. Russian investments in Kazakhstan's economy have also been growing annually; today they amount to about USD 13 billion. More than 23,000 enterprises with Russian capital operate in the Republic. Companies of our countries are implementing a number of major joint projects in the field of industrial cooperation and high technologies and develop new full production cycle manufacturing processes, which facilitates comprehensive economic modernization and strengthens the technological sovereignty of Russia and Kazakhstan. Our countries are engaged in equally constructive cooperation in the oil and gas sector. Due to the activities of the Caspian Pipeline Consortium, over 80 percent of Kazakhstan's oil is exported to foreign markets via Russian territory and Russian port infrastructure on the Black Sea. The energy companies of our companies are jointly developing hydrocarbon reserves, processing energy resources and expanding the pipeline system. Rosatom provides practical assistance in the implementation of nuclear fuel cycle projects and the development of the uranium industry in Kazakhstan. The Russian state corporation, which has unique competencies and technical solutions, often unparalleled in the world, is ready for new large-scale projects with Kazakhstan. Good prospects are also opening up for cooperation in the field of alternative and clean energy, environmental protection and combating climate change. There is a whole range of promising industrial projects and initiatives in other areas of economic cooperation as well. I would like to mention, for example, the ongoing work to expand the eastern branch of the North-South international transport corridor that passes through Kazakhstan, and the creation of the Baiterek space rocket complex at the Baikonur Cosmodrome using the Russian Soyuz-5 rocket carrier. The regions of our countries are making a tangible contribution to strengthening our mutually beneficial collaboration. Practically all of the constituent entities of the Russian Federation have established direct ties with their partners from Kazakhstan, and are working together on projects in the field of energy, industry, transport, and high technologies. These days, Ufa is hosting the 20 th jubilee Interregional Cooperation Forum that traditionally gathers government senior officials, lawmakers, representatives of ministries and agencies, business, scientific and social circles, i.e. all those who deal with the practical issues of the development of bilateral relations. Mr Kassym-Jomart Tokayev and I are going to address participants in the forum via videolink. In addition, a large-scale Programme for Interregional and Cross-Border Cooperation has been developed. It comprises some 150 joint activities and projects aimed at creating favourable conditions for further progressive socio-economic growth of the regions of Russia and Kazakhstan, and for improving the quality of life for people. Humanitarian exchanges occupy a traditionally important place in the spectrum of Russian-Kazakh interaction. Both Russian and Kazakh sides do much to expanding cooperation in culture, sports, through social and youth communities, and, certainly, in education. Around 60,000 Kazakhstani students attend Russian higher education institutions. Branches of many leading Russian higher education institutions, including Lomonosov Moscow State University, operate successfully in Kazakhstan. In the near future already, a branch of MGIMO University of the MFA of Russia whose graduates include many famous Kazakhstanis, including Kassym-Jomart Tokayev, will open in Astana. Russia also supports the construction of new Russian language schools in Kazakhstan, as well as enhancing the quality of school education in Russian language. We expect that soon three more such schools will open in the cities of Kyzylorda, Taraz and Turkistan. And we are naturally grateful to the leadership of the Republic of Kazakhstan, and personally Kassym-Jomart Tokayev, for the caring attitude to the Russian language and putting forward an important initiative of establishing the International Organization for the Russian language which will contribute to the promotion of the Russian language as a means of interstate and international communication. I would like to emphasize that next year the peoples of our countries will celebrate the 80th anniversary of the Victory in the Great Patriotic War. We look forward to seeing President Kassym-Jomart Tokayev and our other Kazakh friends at the anniversary celebrations in Moscow on 9 May. Both Russia and Kazakhstan remember and sacredly honour the feat of their fathers and grandfathers, who fought shoulder to shoulder against Nazism. And we must certainly do our utmost to ensure that future generations remember the cost of defending peace and freedom. This is especially important now, at a time when a more just multipolar world order is formed based on equal cooperation and new opportunities for sovereign development. Russia and Kazakhstan are at the forefront of these processes and take similar positions with regard to the key role of international law in interstate relations, and the need to take into account the interests of all countries in matters of global security, stability and sustainable development. It is on the basis of these approaches that our countries cooperate productively within multilateral organizations, such as the Commonwealth of Independent States , the Collective Security Treaty Organization , and the Shanghai Cooperation Organization . The President of Kazakhstan took part in the CIS Summit in Moscow and in the BRICS Summit in Kazan which were held in October with great success. In particular, one of the important decisions taken at the BRICS Meeting of State Leaders was the establishment of a new category – ”Partner Country“ of our Group, as well as the list of candidate countries to obtain such status was agreed. Kazakhstan was invited to join the BRICS in this capacity. I would like to emphasize once again that Russia is willing to continue developing multifaceted relations of friendship and alliance with the Republic of Kazakhstan for the benefit of our peoples. I wish all citizens of Kazakhstan success, well-being and prosperity. Geography Kazakhstan Topics Foreign policy Publication status Published in sections: News , Transcripts Publication date: November 27, 2024, 00:00 Direct link: en.kremlin.ru/d/75671 Text version
I would like to inform the military personnel of the Russian Federation Armed Forces, citizens of our country, our friends across the globe, and those who persist in the illusion that a strategic defeat can be inflicted upon Russia, about the events taking place today in the zone of the special military operation, specifically following the attacks by Western long-range weapons against our territory. The escalation of the conflict in Ukraine, instigated by the West, continues with the United States and its NATO allies previously announcing that they authorise the use of their long-range high-precision weapons for strikes inside the Russian Federation. Experts are well aware, and the Russian side has repeatedly highlighted it, that the use of such weapons is not possible without the direct involvement of military experts from the manufacturing nations. On November 19, six ATACMS tactical ballistic missiles produced by the United States, and on November 21, during a combined missile assault involving British Storm Shadow systems and HIMARS systems produced by the US, attacked military facilities inside the Russian Federation in the Bryansk and Kursk regions. From that point onward, as we have repeatedly emphasised in prior communications, the regional conflict in Ukraine provoked by the West has assumed elements of a global nature. Our air defence systems successfully counteracted these incursions, preventing the enemy from achieving their apparent objectives. The fire at the ammunition depot in the Bryansk Region, caused by the debris of ATACMS missiles, was extinguished without casualties or significant damage. In the Kursk Region, the attack targeted one of the command posts of our group North. Regrettably, the attack and the subsequent air defence battle resulted in casualties, both fatalities and injuries, among the perimeter security units and servicing staff. However, the command and operational staff of the control centre suffered no casualties and continues to manage effectively the operations of our forces to eliminate and push enemy units out of the Kursk Region. I wish to underscore once again that the use by the enemy of such weapons cannot affect the course of combat operations in the special military operation zone. Our forces are making successful advances along the entire line of contact, and all objectives we have set will be accomplished. In response to the deployment of American and British long-range weapons, on November 21, the Russian Armed Forces delivered a combined strike on a facility within Ukraine’s defence industrial complex. In field conditions, we also carried out tests of one of Russia’s latest medium-range missile systems – in this case, carrying a non-nuclear hypersonic ballistic missile that our engineers named Oreshnik. The tests were successful, achieving the intended objective of the launch. In the city of Dnepropetrovsk, Ukraine, one of the largest and most famous industrial complexes from the Soviet Union era, which continues to produce missiles and other armaments, was hit. We are developing intermediate-range and shorter-range missiles in response to US plans to produce and deploy intermediate-range and shorter-range missiles in Europe and the Asia-Pacific region. We believe that the United States made a mistake by unilaterally destroying the INF Treaty in 2019 under a far-fetched pretext. Today, the United States is not only producing such equipment, but, as we can see, it has worked out ways to deploy its advanced missile systems to different regions of the world, including Europe, during training exercises for its troops. Moreover, in the course of these exercises, they are conducting training for using them. As a reminder, Russia has voluntarily and unilaterally committed not to deploy intermediate-range and shorter-range missiles until US weapons of this kind appear in any region of the world. To reiterate, we are conducting combat tests of the Oreshnik missile system in response to NATO’s aggressive actions against Russia. Our decision on further deployment of intermediate-range and shorter-range missiles will depend on the actions of the United States and its satellites. We will determine the targets during further tests of our advanced missile systems based on the threats to the security of the Russian Federation. We consider ourselves entitled to use our weapons against military facilities of those countries that allow to use their weapons against our facilities, and in case of an escalation of aggressive actions, we will respond decisively and in mirror-like manner. I recommend that the ruling elites of the countries that are hatching plans to use their military contingents against Russia seriously consider this. It goes without saying that when choosing, if necessary and as a retaliatory measure, targets to be hit by systems such as Oreshnik on Ukrainian territory, we will in advance suggest that civilians and citizens of friendly countries residing in those areas leave danger zones. We will do so for humanitarian reasons, openly and publicly, without fear of counter-moves coming from the enemy, who will also be receiving this information. Why without fear? Because there are no means of countering such weapons today. Missiles attack targets at a speed of Mach 10, which is 2.5 to 3 kilometres per second. Air defence systems currently available in the world and missile defence systems being created by the Americans in Europe cannot intercept such missiles. It is impossible. I would like to emphasise once again that it was not Russia, but the United States that destroyed the international security system and, by continuing to fight, cling to its hegemony, they are pushing the whole world into a global conflict. We have always preferred and are ready now to resolve all disputes by peaceful means. But we are also ready for any turn of events. If anyone still doubts this,
Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I warmly welcome you to the Kremlin for the ceremonial presentation of credentials. We are joined here by the extraordinary and plenipotentiary ambassadors of 28 states. Colleagues, you can rely on the support of the Russian authorities, ministries, and departments, as well as the goodwill and constructive engagement of Russian business, political, and public circles. We are genuinely interested in your success.
Heads of state, Ladies and gentlemen, friends, I am delighted to welcome all of you to the BRICS Plus/Outreach-format meeting. This inclusive platform has proven its worth by enabling the BRICS group participants to engage in a direct and open dialogue with their friends and partners. Let me remind you that heads of many African countries and senior executives from the key regional organisations were invited to attend last year’s meeting in Johannesburg. This time, the Russian chairmanship invited Russia’s closest neighbours and friendly countries with whom we share a common past, having lived within a single state. In addition, heads of state seeking to forge closer partnership ties with BRICS or even considering joining the group are also present here. There are also countries leading major multilateral structures here. Therefore, Europe, Asia, Africa and Latin America are all represented at this table. According to our agenda, we will discuss the most pressing issues the international community is facing today, including sustainable development, eradication of poverty, climate change adaptation, exchanging technology and knowledge, fighting terrorism and transborder crime. We will focus particularly on the peaceful resolution of conflicts, certainly including a serious discussion of the deteriorating situation in the Middle East. It is crucial for BRICS members to discuss all these issues with countries from the Global South and East that share our approach. All our countries share similar aspirations, values and a vision of a new democratic world order that reflects cultural and civilisational diversity. We are confident that such a system should be guided by the universal principles of respect for the legitimate interests and sovereign choice of nations, respect for international law and a spirit of mutually beneficial, honest co-operation. The transition to a more just international system is not easy. Its development is being hampered by forces whose thinking and actions continue to be aimed at dominating everything and everyone. Under the guise of a rule-based order they are imposing on the world, they are actually attempting to contain growing competition and prevent the independent development of countries in Africa, Asia and Latin America that they cannot control. These forces are resorting to illegal unilateral sanctions, blatant protectionism, manipulation of currency and stock markets, and relentless foreign influence ostensibly promoting democracy, human rights, and the climate change agenda. Yes, they are using these tactics as well. These twisted methods and perverse approaches – to put it bluntly – lead to the emergence of new conflicts and the aggravation of old disagreements. This undermines regional and global strategic stability, violates the principles of equal and indivisible security, and encourages internecine strife. One example of this is Ukraine, which is being used to create critical threats to Russia’s security, while ignoring our vital interests, our just concerns, and the infringement of the rights of Russian-speaking people. Now they are not even hiding that their goal is to inflict a strategic defeat on our country. I will say bluntly that anyone harbouring such illusory plans has no understanding of Russia’s history, of our nation’s unity and cohesion forged over centuries, or our people’s moral fibre and fortitude. But, as agreed, our discussion will primarily focus on the situation in the Middle East. This is another cause for concern, and precisely the case I Mr Secretary-General said that we all must live as one big family. Mr Secretary-General, this is exactly the way we have been living our lives. Unfortunately, families often have quarrels and scandals and may have to split their assets, and sometimes their disputes become physical. BRICS sees its purpose as creating the necessary cooperation mechanisms and a favourable environment within the household we share. This is what we are doing, and this is what we will continue to do, including by working closely with the United Nations. Thank you very much. Colleagues, friends, We will have a short break before continuing our work in the working breakfast format. Thank you. See also All news about the BRICS Summit in Kazan October 25, 2024
Heads of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Friends, We are sincerely happy to welcome here in Kazan the heads of BRICS countries and leaders of nations interested in cooperation with our group. Today, we have successfully conducted the BRICS Summit meetings in both restricted and expanded formats, addressing pressing issues on the global agenda, including interactions in politics and security as well as the economy and cultural sphere. Our discussions have once again underscored that BRICS countries share the universal values of peace, justice, and equality and work collectively for the prosperity and well-being of our countries and peoples. BRICS states stand united, advocating for intensified cooperation on the global stage based on the key principles of the United Nations Charter. We collectively strive to contribute in every conceivable way to the establishment of a just, multipolar world order with decisive participation from countries of the Global South and East in the systems of international governance. Tomorrow, together with all of you, friends, we shall hold a BRICS Plus/Outreach format meeting. Such expanded format has proven its worth, offering a platform for direct and open dialogue between members of our group and our sincere friends. Together, we shall address issues of concern to the global community. These include sustainable development, eradication of poverty, peaceful settlement of conflicts, combating terrorism and cross-border crime, adaptation to climate change, stability of supply chains, and exchange of technology and knowledge in its broadest sense. In essence, these are the issues that directly impact the lives of our citizens and thus necessitate collective action. We are committed to involving our like-minded partners in the existing collaboration formats within our group, striving to build an equal and mutually beneficial partnership with them. It is in this spirit, under the slogan Strengthening Multilateralism for Just Global Development and Security, that the Russian chairmanship has been operating this year. Friends, I extend my gratitude for your presence here today. I propose a
Ladies and gentlemen, friends, colleagues, I am delighted to welcome you all to Moscow, to the 7 th Russian Energy Week. This forum has long become a permanent fixture in the business schedule of the global energy sector, once again bringing together the heads of leading companies and industry organisations, government officials, prominent specialists, experts, and journalists. This year, more than 4,000 participants from over 50 countries will be discussing the most important issues on the energy agenda, and the challenges that both producers and consumers of energy resources are facing around the world. In addition, this forum is an excellent opportunity to establish new contacts, make deals and exchange views on the long-term prospects of the fuel and energy sector. See also Greetings on the opening of the 7th Russian Energy Week International Forum September 23, 2024 Modern energy is one of the key sectors enabling global development. Its smooth operation based on transparent and predictable rules, when deposits are developed and resources are extracted, processed and supplied to the market without interruption, creates a solid foundation for economic growth, social progress, and improvement of the people’s living standards. Unfortunately, this truism is being increasingly disregarded by those who resort to illegal sanctions, believing that such tactics can give them benefits and advantage in the energy market. What are we talking about here? Historically, the main elements of the supply infrastructure of the global energy market happened to be consolidated in the West. I am referring to innovative mining solutions, logistics, insurance of resource supply, and the system of payments for these operations. Taken together, this constitutes a global energy platform on a par with technologies. The Western elites believed that they could close access to these services for the countries they regard as inappropriate politically, thereby pushing them to the curb of progress, or more precisely, squeezing them out of the market. I believe that many would agree with me that all these instruments are being used above all for unfair competition. Friends, colleagues, You have a full working week ahead of you. A week of contacts and meetings during which you will sit down and discuss the issues that brought you to Moscow. Without a doubt, your work during the forum and, more broadly, your current efforts are impacted by the political developments around the world. Politics and the economy are closely intertwined, especially in a critical and fundamental economic sector such as energy. This link can be traced to the early days of human history. It is obvious. Now, it has become clear to the point where even those who are not involved in the economy or politics are aware of it. However, we have here the people who are accustomed to doing concrete things, rather than telling others what they should be doing and how. We have businesspeople in this audience. The outcomes of your work will have a significant impact on both the economy and politics. I wish you success in this joint event and hope that your efforts will be as free of politics and as pragmatic as possible. I wholeheartedly wish you success. I would like to thank our foreign guests for coming to our country, Russia’s capital, Moscow, in these challenging times. I wish you all the best, every success, and prosperity. Good luck. Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen – I see that there are also men in this room, Friends, I extend my warm greetings to the participants and guests of the fourth Eurasian Women's Forum. Welcome to Russia and to St Petersburg. Your forum is one of the most highly respected international platforms demonstrating the potential and capabilities of modern women and their truly colossal role in virtually all spheres of life. I would like to emphasise that your meetings reflect on the most crucial aspects of modern development and promote the ideas of unity for sustainable development and universal security. This is more important now than ever, and this is what millions of people across all continents desire. Humanity is facing extremely complicated issues, which can only be resolved together and based on respect for each other’s interests. The previous forums paved the way for many concrete initiatives, including stronger interaction within the framework of BRICS, APEC and W20. Incidentally, we have just now discussed these issues with the President of Brazil. I bring you best regards from Brazil. I am convinced that women’s commitment to the ideas of cooperation and peace has brought success and popularity to your forum. Each time, it brings together greater numbers of participants. This year, female leaders from 126 countries came to St Petersburg. Additionally, multimillion online audiences have joined the discussions focusing on a variety of sensitive topics. Delegations from all Russian regions which represent our multi-ethnic nation, our rich culture and centuries-old traditions are attending this forum as well. Russian women bring to light the soul of Russia, its beauty, appeal, warmth, graciousness, and magnanimity. The forum provides an opportunity to show the broad international female community that Russia is an open and hospitable country that appreciates dialogue, trust, and friendship, and that we respect the diversity and uniqueness of other countries and peoples. The great interest in the Eurasian Women’s Forum is also grounded in the fact that its agenda transcends the typical discussion of women’s role in society. The forum brings together accomplished women who have achieved top results in their professional careers. Your experience in creative, managerial, intellectual, humanitarian, and educational activities undoubtedly matters a lot for billions of people worldwide, which fact made this forum a global platform for developing proposals to address the most pressing issues. The forum’s already high standing continues to rise. Your voice is heard, and governments around the world heed it. Your recommendations are taken into consideration by major international organisations. To reiterate, this participation and energetic work are crucial if we want to build a multipolar, just, and genuinely free world. Everyone among us shares these ideas and does everything possible to shape a new progressive global space. This forum is devoted to matters of trust and global cooperation. As always, the female eye has captured the most important matters. Humanity is in need of a robust foundation of trust, openness, mutual understanding, and contacts across various fields in order to be able to address challenging social issues, to ensure economic prosperity and technological development, and to overcome poverty, inequality, and diseases. Most importantly, to be able to develop equal indivisible security principles that every country needs. For many years now, Russia has been urging the world to unite in order to discuss and to adopt such principles. I am convinced that you are supportive of our initiatives and will promote them in your respective countries. Speaking before an audience of female leaders from around the world, I would be remiss not to recognise the immense contribution that Russian women are making towards achieving our national development goals. More often than not, they drive the efforts to carry out projects that are critically important for improving the quality of life and standards of living in our country, supporting families, protecting their interests, and, more broadly, upholding our traditional values. I would like to take this opportunity and thank all women of Russia for their work for the good of society and their incredible energy of creation. I am confident that heads of states that are represented at the forum share my sentiments and can express gratitude to women from their respective countries, because life has provided us with compelling evidence that progress, well-being, and harmony which are mandatory pillars of a truly prosperous world cannot be achieved without women. Friends, Russia is traditionally respectful of women. In this regard, our state policy relies on the National Strategy of Action in the Interests of Women. Several initiatives have been put forward towards this end, and proper conditions are being created for women to succeed professionally while remaining guardians of the hearth and lynchpins of large families with many children. We know that combining these roles is a challenge, but our women cope with it and, despite being confronted with rigorous workloads, they manage to remain beautiful, caring, and charming ladies. They possess a secret that men are unable to fathom. Here is what I would like to add to this. Women in Russia work in almost all fields. Female entrepreneurship is making wide strides. Last year alone, the number of female entrepreneurs grew by almost a third to six million women now running their own businesses in Russia. In every field of choice, women are highly responsible operators who strive to discover the truth of the matter they are dealing with, to think outside the box, and to take every nuance into consideration when making decisions. I wish productive work to the participants and guests of the forum. I am convinced that the 4 th Eurasian Women’s Forum will be a success and bring good results, give rise to new ideas and projects, and boost cooperation and mutual understanding on our planet. I wish you good health and all the best. I wish you success for the benefit of peace, creation, and progress. Thank you for your time. I hope you will have the chance to get to know St Petersburg. Thank you very much. All the best! 
What we are seeing is an attempt to substitute notions. Because this is not a question of whether the Kiev regime is allowed or not allowed to strike targets on Russian territory. It is already carrying out strikes using unmanned aerial vehicles and other means. But using Western-made long-range precision weapons is a completely different story. The fact is that – I have mentioned this, and any expert, both in our country and in the West, will confirm this – the Ukrainian army is not capable of using cutting-edge high-precision long-range systems supplied by the West. They cannot do that. These weapons are impossible to employ without intelligence data from satellites which Ukraine does not have. This can only be done using the European Union’s satellites, or US satellites – in general, NATO satellites. This is the first point. The second point – perhaps the most important, the key point even – is that only NATO military personnel can assign flight missions to these missile systems. Ukrainian servicemen cannot do this. Therefore, it is not a question of allowing the Ukrainian regime to strike Russia with these weapons or not. It is about deciding whether NATO countries become directly involved in the military conflict or not. If this decision is made, it will mean nothing short of direct involvement – it will mean that NATO countries, the United States, and European countries are parties to the war in Ukraine. This will mean their direct involvement in the conflict, and it will clearly change the very essence, the very nature of the conflict dramatically. This will mean that NATO countries – the United States and European countries – are at war with Russia. And if this is the case, then, bearing in mind the change in the essence of the conflict, we will make appropriate decisions in response to the threats that will be posed to us. See also All news about trip to St Petersburg September 12 − 13, 2024
Mr Anwar Ibrahim, Mr Han Zheng, Ladies and gentlemen, friends. I am delighted to offer warm greetings to all the participants and guests of the 9 th Eastern Economic Forum. It has become a tradition for Russia and the city of Vladivostok to host this event in early September, bringing together businesses, technology providers, research teams, senior executives from major corporations, government officials, specialists, experts and entrepreneurs who are interested in Russia’s Far East and recognise the immense opportunities this unique Russian region offers for launching creative undertakings and engaging in mutually beneficial partnerships. See also All news about trip to the Primorye Territory September 3 − 5, 2024 As you know, and as our moderator Aleksandra pointed out, we have designated the development of the Far East as a national priority for the 21st century. The significance and correctness of that decision have been confirmed by life itself, the challenges we have recently encountered and, most importantly, the objective trends that are gaining momentum in the global economy, when the main business ties, trade routes and the overall development are increasingly shifting towards the East and the Global South. Our Far Eastern regions offer direct access to these growing emerging markets, helping us overcome the barriers which some Western elites are trying to create worldwide. The most important thing, as I have already mentioned, is that the Far East is a huge area for implementing business initiatives, launching complex projects and creating whole new industries. In fact, the Far East has become a crucial factor for strengthening Russia’s standing in the world and our flagship in the new global economic reality. The further development of the Far East will largely determine the future of our country as a whole. This subject – the image of our future – is the key focus of nearly 100 events, panel sessions and roundtable discussions at the Eastern Economic Forum. Overall, representatives of more than 75 countries and territories are taking part in the forum’s events. It is extremely important that such discussions are complemented with substantive business dialogues and result in the adoption of investment decisions and trade agreements. I would like to say that over a thousand agreements worth in total more than 10.5 trillion rubles were signed during the previous three forums. In short, the Eastern Economic Forum has rightfully become a respected venue for establishing reliable business contacts and discussing the strategic development of the Russian Far East and the Asia-Pacific region as a whole. In my address I will tell you about some of our planned actions in this sphere, our proposals for our foreign partners on strengthening investment, trade, industrial and technological cooperation in the Asia-Pacific region, as well as about our achievements and plans in the economy, infrastructure and social sphere of the Far East, including for improving the quality of life for our citizens in this region. Let me remind you that back in 2013 we launched a new strategic programme and a governance framework for promoting comprehensive development in Russia’s Far East. And this approach has proven its worth. Over the past ten years, over three and a half thousand manufacturing, infrastructure, technology and educational projects have been launched in this region. Over the same period, fixed capital investment has been gathering momentum in Russia’s Far East, with the growth rate exceeding the national average by a factor of three. This investment brought about tangible results. There are about 1,000 new enterprises here, and these efforts helped create over 140,000 jobs. In terms of industrial output growth, the region has been above the national average by 25 percent since 2013. Let me also remind you that there are currently 16 priority development territories in Russia’s Far East. There is also the Free Port of Vladivostok. We introduced a preferential regime for the Kurils, and established a special administrative district on Russky Island – this is where this meeting is taking place. By the way, this district has offered a pathway for re-shoring assets worth over 5.5 trillion rubles back to Russia from offshore and foreign jurisdictions. More than 100 companies are currently registered here. We will make sure to continue this advancement and will work tirelessly to improve the business environment in Russia in general, as well as in its Far East, including by relying on innovative and effective practices when working with foreign investors. For example, we announced the initiative to establish international priority development territories in the Far East at the 2023 Eastern Economic Forum. Foreign investors, primarily from the friendly countries, of course, must benefit from a globally competitive environment. We have plans to establish our first international priority development territory here in the Primorye Territory. Our Chinese partners, as well as the Republic of Belarus, have shown great interest in this undertaking. Belarus could even contribute to building a new deep-water port here. I would like to ask the State Duma and the Government to step up their efforts to draft a law for launching these international priority development territories. There is another regulatory solution designed to facilitate and expand our ties with our foreign partners. Starting on September 1, 2024, Russian law allows for the use of foreign standards in construction and design. Of course, this applies to countries where quality and safety requirements for permanent structures are just as high as here in Russia. I hope that this approach serves its purpose, including within the Far East’s international priority development territories. Developing Bolshoi Ussuriysky Island in the Khabarovsk Territory should serve as a model for working with our foreign partners, attracting investment in construction projects and creating jobs. This project provides for creating major logistics centres and border checkpoints, as well as expanding its road network. Last May, during the state visit to the People’s Republic of China, we agreed to collaborate with our Chinese colleagues on this project. I am certain that it will provide a good powerful impetus to the development of Khabarovsk and the entire region. I am asking the Government to finalise all the organisational and financial issues in order to begin fulfilling this plan as soon as 2025. Of course, electricity supply is one of the key issues when it comes to launching business initiatives in the processing industry, in housing construction and in transport network upgrade, across all areas, in fact. The Russian Far East is experiencing an increase in energy consumption. The current rate is 69 billion kilowatt per hour annually, and by the end of the decade, we expect it to be around 96 billion. Even today, there are areas, residential areas and major Far Eastern investors who face the shortage of power and have to wait for the launch of new stations, which delays construction, the operation of industrial facilities and infrastructure. I have already instructed the Government, our major energy companies and business circles to develop a long-term development programme for energy capacity in the Far East, and work on respective project financing mechanisms. This programme aims to eliminate the expected deficit of electric energy in the Far East, primarily by launching new generation facilities like, for example, the Nizhne-Zeiskaya HPP in the Amur Region, which will not only provide electricity to the region and the Eastern Operating Domain but also help protect territories and residential areas from flooding. I am also asking you to consider building nuclear power plants in the Far East. We discussed this with our colleagues yesterday. I want to emphasise that the power development plan must consider both current and future needs of businesses and the public, as well as the long-term objectives of the constituent entities, cities and smaller residential areas. This also applies to strengthening transport and logistics capabilities of the Far East and the entire country. The largest and most significant project here is, of course, the expansion of the Eastern Operating Domain. In the past ten years, more than 2,000 km of railway tracks have been built and more than 5,000 km have been renovated on the Trans-Siberian Railway and the Baikal-Amur Mainline. We have built and renovated more than 100 bridges and tunnels, including those across the Lena, Bureya and Selenga rivers. By the end of this year, the carrying capacity of the Eastern Operating Domain railway network is expected to reach 180 million tonnes. This year, we launched the third stage of this highly important transport artery, and the works are currently underway. I want to emphasise that our objective is to eliminate railway bottlenecks and build over 300 facilities, including routes supplementing the Severomuisky, Kuznetsovsky and Kodarsky tunnels, as well as a bridge across the Amur River. This is a much more ambitious goal. It is crucial to start planning for the future today.For example, we will need to lay a second set of tracks along the entire Baikal-Amur Mainline and electrify this railway. Over the next eight years, we will lay 3,100 kilometres of tracks along the Eastern Operating Domain. To put this into perspective, this is the same volume of tracks that were laid during the first and second stages of expanding BAM and the Trans-Siberian Mainline combined. This is also comparable to the construction of BAM in 1974−1984. Today, we are implementing a project whose scale exceeds the largest Soviet-era infrastructure investment project completed by all Soviet republics pooling all their resources. Just like the Trans-Siberian Mainline, the new transport corridor between St Petersburg and Vladivostok will serve as a vital continental artery. Expanding freight traffic volumes and improving the quality of vehicle traffic are not the only goals. When completed, Yes, talking about this could take long. We certainly should do more than we have been doing so far. This is obvious. But at least we can focus on two main aspects. First, we must start improving conditions now and create interesting and promising jobs. And second, we must make life more comfortable for the people in the region. But the most important thing is for every person and family to see that it is a long haul, that our planning horizon is long, and that living and working here hold a promise for them and their children. It is important to have prospects, because overall we would like to see more young people moving here, people who are our future and who have ambitious goals. We must create conditions for them to realise their ambitions. This is the main thing. I have already said that novelty – if we can call it that – consists in combining spatial and economic development. How was the work organised in the Soviet period in both the Russian Far East and Siberia? They built an industrial plant and a shantytown in the vicinity. And that’s all. Right, this is how it is called up till now. A backbone enterprise! A plant is built and some shanties nearby, where people could live. The BAM, incidentally, was being developed in the same way. Very many enterprises and regions developed that way, too. A plant plus something in the vicinity for people to live in. It was only later, when people began living under these conditions, that gave some thought to what could be done additionally to make their life worthy of human beings. The new approach we are proposing is different in that it is necessary to do both things in parallel. As soon as we start building a facility, we should plan for where and how people will live, what they will do , and what should be done in the area of education, culture, and health services. These projects must be implemented right away. In certain places…I will not even name them now – I wanted to, but, I think, OK, I’ll refrain from doing that because it is certain that far from all has been done the way they wanted to. If I say something now, Excuse me, I’ve already said that we are trying to develop 22 populated localities based on this principle. In the next few years, it should be extended to some two hundred populated localities across this country. First of all, I would like to say that we are not conducting a policy of de-dollarisation. We did not renounce settlements in dollars; they denied us such settlements, and we were simply forced to look for other options; this is it. However, this is not most important. The most important thing is that the currency of any country reflects its economic might. The larger the economy, the more partners it has. Consequently, the national currency of any particular country becomes more popular during settlements. Naturally, when there are many partners, any economy wants to use the currency of this country. This is why the use of any country’s currency depends on the role of this country’s economy in the global economy. Naturally, after World War II, the United States, successfully took advantage of the war’s economic results, implemented the Marshall Plan for Europe and established one single financial system, the Bretton Woods system. Later, it made slight adjustments to this system and set up another one. It established the dollar as the common global currency. I want to repeat, this depended and still depends on the country’s economic might. As Mr Prime Minister has just said, the global economic situation is changing. The countries of the Global South, as well as the BRICS countries, account for over 50 percent and about one-third of the global GDP, respectively. I would like to emphasise that priorities in using certain currencies are also changing naturally. For example, as much as almost 65 percent of transactions we carry out with our BRICS partners are denominated in our respective national currencies. This is a natural process. However, the financial and political authorities in the United States have facilitated this process by acting in this unscrupulous, unprofessional manner. I think that they have already understood their mistake but feel that it would be too late for them to change course. It seems that they believe that recognising their mistake would be somehow inappropriate for them, let alone changing the way they act. After all, they can see that the tools they use are ineffective. We simply switch to our national currencies. But it is too late for them to back out. It could be that only people who will replace the current generation of politicians will be able to do something about it. In fact, changing something amounts to recognising your mistakes. This could be a challenge for them. Why are they acting this way? They probably expected everything to crumble here. This is why they made it impossible for us to use the US dollar. But we are dealing with objective trends, and they are simply pushing them forward, while at its core it is the economic growth that defines the effort to rely on other currencies. We all know very well that today, China is the world’s number one economy by purchasing power parity. Of course, the US has a powerful and robust economy with its own unique structure, but the People’s Republic of China has a bigger economy. The United States is the world’s second largest economy. And the gap between the two is growing by the year. This is why the yuan has been used in international transactions. The United States ranks second, and India is the world’s third largest economy. Russia is the fourth economy of the world by purchasing power parity. We got ahead of Europe’s economic powerhouse, Germany, and left Japan behind not that long ago. These are not our projections – they come from international experts. Let me reiterate that Japan, Germany and the United States have a lot of advantages, primarily in terms of the way their economies are structured, as well as their high technology and so forth, but the size of their economies also matters, since it creates opportunities for investing in the most promising sectors and undertakings. Therefore, let me reiterate that this is a natural process that has nothing to do with momentary political considerations. Still, the authorities in Europe and the United States have simply accelerated these processes by acting in this unscrupulous and unprofessional manner. As for our relations with BRICS countries, we are developing them and have been quite successful in these efforts. Russia, China and India are the so-called founding fathers of this association. We were the ones who launched this process back in 2005 by forming RIC – a platform for Russia, India and China. Brazil joined us down the road, followed by South Africa. We have recently expanded this framework to include new participants. This is also a positive process. In fact, more than 30 countries around the world have expressed their readiness to work with BRICS, and some of them want to be part of this association. The new BRICS countries are self-sufficient emerging economies with their own unique culture. These are very interesting countries. There is no doubt that they will have a positive impact in terms of developing this organisation. When we talk about these issues, we should, first of all, think about the people who are certainly experiencing serious ordeals and suffering from these terrorist attacks. It is the sacred duty of the Armed Forces to do everything possible for expelling the enemy from these territories and reliably protecting our citizens. Of course, the entire country should do its best to support the people. Regarding the military aspect of the matter, I have already said that the enemy wanted to make us nervous, to start rushing around, to redeploy troops from one sector to another and to stop our offensive in key sectors, primarily Donbass. The liberation of Donbass is our high-priority goal. Did the enemy succeed? No, it accomplished nothing. First, our Armed Forces stabilised the situation and started gradually pushing the enemy from border territories. Second, nothing hampers our offensive, and this is the most important thing. On the contrary, by redeploying its sufficiently large and well-trained units to border areas, the enemy weakened its positions in key sectors, and our troops expedited their offensive operations. We have not made such impressive territorial gains for a long time. The day before yesterday, the Vostok group seized a triangle measuring seven by five kilometres during one strike. The Centre group is operating very successfully in the Donetsk and Pokrovsk sectors. We are gaining several square kilometres, rather than several hundred metres, there – four by five, three by five kilometres, etc. This is the second thing. And last but not least, the enemy has been sustaining enormous losses in personnel and equipment. I will not list everything now. The Russian Defence Ministry provides this data, and I consider it objective as it can be confirmed by several sources. On the one hand, there is a risk of crushing the most crucial sectors of the front as the losses may lead to the entire armed forces losing combat capacity. This is exactly what we are trying to achieve. This is my overall assessment. As to what is happening daily, naturally, the General Headquarters and the Defence Ministry report to me several times per day every day. I am sorry, I missed one thing. You also mentioned the attacks on a nuclear power plant. Those were very serious terrorist attacks. One can only imagine what will happen if we give a commensurate response, what will happen to this part of Europe. It was not an inconsistency. There are actual problems there… Problems always exist, but the Commander of the 155 th Marine Brigade did not raise them because in Snegovaya Pad, a place he had chosen himself for future personnel housing, the construction is underway and local officials are helping. But, of course, it is important to fulfill these plans in due time, and I am sure that they will be. Some other commanders pointed out actual pressing problems that need to be solved as soon as possible. I also spoke to the Commander of the 810 th Marine Brigade of the Black Sea Fleet. They also need housing to be built for the military personnel serving in the border zone right now. Their operations are very successful. These guys are simply heroes. Incidentally, regarding the issue as a whole, one of the adversary’s objectives was to saw panic, destabilise the internal political situation in Russia, impart uncertainty to our actions, and so on. But what has this led to? On the contrary, it has led to society’s consolidation, as is always the case in Russia in such circumstances. This is evidenced by the fact that the number of people, our men, who feel the need to protect the Motherland, who sign contracts with the Armed Forces, has grown exponentially. As for the social guarantees, our country must by all means get things done, deliver on all objectives, rather than just think about it. The commander of the 810 th Marine Brigade of the Black Sea Fleet told me about this. But the local authorities, I mean the Crimean authorities, are ready to do everything to provide land and they will do this shortly, if, of course, the Defence Ministry is short of land of its own, but it does have enough land. I have instructed the Defence Ministry and the General Staff to submit relevant proposals. The necessary resources will be assigned. We have spoken about this time and again. We have coordinated practically all parameters of a possible peace agreement with representatives of the Kiev government. More than that, the head of the Kiev delegation at the talks – he still heads the faction of the ruling party in parliament, the Verkhovna Rada – initialed these agreements. Of course, it was necessary to specify some points, but on the whole it was a signed official document. Then Mr Johnson arrived in Kiev – it is a known fact, and the UK authorities confirm it – so he came and ordered the Ukrainians to fight till the last Ukrainian, which is what is happening today, in order to inflict a strategic defeat on Russia. But this is failing. The official Ukrainian authorities said in public that had they performed what we had agreed on with them rather than obeyed their masters from other countries, the war would have come to an end long ago. But they have chosen a different path, and you can see the result. Are we ready to negotiate with them? We have never refused it. However, not on the basis of some ephemeral demands but on the basis of the documents that were agreed and actually initialised in Istanbul. We respect our friends and partners, whom I consider to be sincerely interested in resolving all the issues pertaining to this conflict. This is primarily the People's Republic of China, Brazil and India. I am in constant contact with our colleagues on this issue. I have no doubt that the leaders of these countries – we have trustful relations with them – are genuinely keen to help sort out all the details of this complicated process, which, of course, I would like to recall, began with the coup d’état in Ukraine in 2014. After all, that’s where it all began! We have always been told about human rights, about some international law principles which must be observed by everybody. You see, is there any other way? Yes, we understand who we are dealing with. They are people who do not value and treat without any respect the interests of other countries and nations. Such people, unfortunately, exist – they easily break all the commitments they have made, even signed documents. So, what is to be done? We just need to look for such forms and guarantees that could work somehow or to any extent. Still, the core security guarantee is the growth of the economy and military potential of the Russian Federation itself, reliable and sustainable relations with our partners and allies. You’ve said that we failed to reach an agreement in Istanbul during the talks mediated by President Erdogan. But we managed to agree – that’s the trick! – as evidenced by the signature of the head of the Ukrainian delegation that initialed that document, which means that the Ukrainian side was generally satisfied with the agreements reached. The document did not come into force only because the Ukrainians were ordered not to do this. The elites in the United States and some European countries felt the desire to seek Russia’s strategic defeat. They thought they could use the opportunity to bring Russia to its knees, dismember it or whatever else they were planning to do. They thought here it is, manna from heaven for them, and they will achieve all their strategic goals that they had been craving for dozens or hundreds of years. That’s what it was all about. Their mobilisation is total as it is, but the next step is to call up students and so on, to completely bleed the country. We are striving to create competitive advantages and competitive environment. I will not go over all of them now, since everyone, especially the people sitting in this room, are well aware of them. That includes priority development areas, free areas, the free port of Vladivostok, and much more. Lots of incentives have been created. When we discuss this with the Government, the Finance Ministry gets nervous and keeps saying that we have created enough incentive and there is no need to come up with more. Enough is enough. Here is what I Yes, I will. Our Finance Ministry will be surprised as well. No, no, they are cool and there is nothing wrong with their health. Here is what I wanted to share with you. I spoke with our diplomatic mission in Harbin the other day and asked them what else can we do to make more Chinese investors come to the Far East. Why are you asking provocative questions? They stay in China, and we should, on the contrary, lure them in. Han Zheng : First of all, the Chinese government encourages our investors to invest in the global economy, including the Russian economy and the economy of the Far East. I think it’s a lot, but it’s not enough. Yes. Mr Trutnev routinely reported to me about last year’s results and we routinely took part in launching new projects and enterprises. There is a view that this investment can be increased by at least 1.5 trillion to 12 trillion. I think this is absolutely realistic. I met Mr Durov once in Moscow many years ago, and he was just talking about his plans – I meet with the business community on a regular basis, and he was also at one of the meetings, it was in the Kremlin, I don’t remember when, but many years ago. I repeat, he was talking about his plans of business development. Since then, I have not seen him, we have never had any contacts with him. I don’t really understand why we should meet in Baku. I did not even know that he was there, I had no idea about it. If there is a desire – a lot of businessmen are present here – everyone knows, I never refuse, we regularly hold such meetings both within the framework of associations of our entrepreneurs, and individually, considering certain projects, especially if business has a need for some guarantees from the state. I, the Prime Minister, federal ministers, regional authorities – I always encourage them to do so, we do not shut ourselves off business people. So, if he had a wish, he could meet with me in Moscow. I don’t know anything about that either. I assumed that he lives in Moscow, I think. I don't know where he is travelling… А Well, in Dubai, they are people of the world, billionaires, they can afford going anywhere. We have not had any claims against him. But I know that many countries did have complaints, given that the platform is used in a certain way by some people and some entities that can damage the economy or security of certain countries through their activities. I think that the Russian Government may have had some concerns about it as well. But this is something that all platforms of this kind do. If they do this to Durov, then others should probably be plugged up, arrested, or put under house arrest or some other kind of detention involving judicial restraint. Therefore, the actions of the authorities themselves are not very clear to me, as they are selective by nature. I mean the French authorities. А I’ve been to Malaysia and I would like to confirm all that the Prime Minister just said. Tourism in many countries is one of very effectively developing economic sectors. Here’s a It is never all good. Well, yes, I have already said, I The paradox of a high rate and… Experts believe this is down to two things. First, consumer lending is high because individuals are not too sensitive to the high rate. This is one point. Second, turning to corporate lending, to begin with, firms have their business plans put together and they continue to take out loans despite the rate hike. What is more, we decided to adopt measures to support individual industries. There are state-wide tools that are about subsidising lending rates for certain projects and industries. So here is your explanation. That’s what they are doing to cool it – by hiking the key rate, abolishing the subsidised mortgage, apart from the IT, Far East, Arctic and Family options. That’s how this cooling you mentioned is ensured. There is another tool, namely, the stable work of the Government and the Ministry of Finance to balance the budget out. It won’t be easy to keep it up in light of the circumstance that we have just discussed with you. We must try to, though. The special support measures I’ve mentioned are being designed for that purpose. But I repeat, it won’t be an easy task keeping investment at that level. The Government should have a plan to support businesses to avoid visible and significant collapses that could damage the entire economy. I have not talked with representatives of some European countries and the United States on the phone for quite a while now, even if we never rejected these contacts. They are the ones who are refraining from them. Of course, we have been able to use various channels for exchanging certain types of information, primarily through our Foreign Ministry. As for my preferences, it is not up to us to decide. After all, the American people will have to make their own choice. As I have already said, we favoured Mr Biden, the current President, but they took him out of the race. That said, he advised his supporters to support Ms Harris. So, we will act accordingly and lend her our support. This is the first point I wanted to make in this regard. My second point is that she has a very contagious laughter, which shows that everything is fine for her. And if this is the case… Take Trump – no other President has ever imposed so many restrictions and sanctions against Russia. But if everything is so great for Ms Harris, maybe she would refrain from acting this way? At the end of the day, it is up to the American people to decide, and we will respect the choice they will make. For us, all citizens of the Russian Federation are equal at all times whenever they need support from the Russian state, and we will always treat them this way. This is the first thing I wanted to say in this regard. Second, on the exchange that we had, many countries contributed to these efforts, to this mission. Take this journalist from the United States – I mean the person who pretended to be a journalist, while he was clearly performing an intelligence mission and pursued the corresponding objectives. At the initial stage, the Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia contributed proactively to these efforts, and we are very grateful for this initiative because eventually it enabled Russian nationals to return home. President of Türkiye Erdogan offered his good offices for reaching a final deal, and so did several Arab countries, as well as several other countries which demonstrated their good will. At the end of the day, I think that all the stakeholders in this process achieved a positive outcome which served their respective interests. Importantly, our citizens came back home, including those who performed special missions abroad in the interests of their Motherland. It depends on the region. In Siberia, for example, there is a surplus of power, and the Far East experiences shortages, which will, unfortunately, snowball if we do not take appropriate measures in time. In European Russia, we also need to think about timely repairs and deep modernisation. Such plans are in place. Some of them are work in progress, while others have been approved. Most importantly, they should be acted upon in a timely manner. It is also important to perform well in this sphere and to make timely decisions. The head of Gazprom is sitting across from me in the front row, as is the head of VTB. Mr Gref is here as well which is good, meaning that everyone is interested in developing their respective businesses in the Russian Far East. Strange as it may seem, we are not turning down the idea of transit via Ukraine, because we, including Gazprom, plan to fulfil our obligations to our customers, with whom we have signed long-term contracts. Transit is among the mandatory components of the joint work. The transit contract expires on December 31, 2024. If Ukraine says no to transit, well, we cannot push them into doing so. Our main consumers in Europe are clearly unwilling to do so, even though they provide all kinds of assistance and support, including military and financial, to Ukraine. With Ukraine turning our transit down the volume of gas coming to Europe will drop. Gas will be supplied through other routes, in particular TurkStream. Some of it may go through Blue Stream to Turkiye as well. Although this gas is used for domestic consumption, it will nevertheless help improve energy stability in Europe. However, this is their choice. I am not sure how it will affect them. We mind our business, and let them mind their own. I cannot find proper words to describe the attitude towards their allies and partners demonstrated by many people in the United States and Ukraine. It is very strange, and I cannot get my head around it. They up and blew up the gas pipeline in the Baltic Sea. They blew up both Nord Stream 1 pipelines and one Nord Stream 2 pipeline. The second one is fully functional, though. What stops the German government from pressing the button, coming to terms with us and turning it on? How much is it? 25 billion cubic metres through one pipeline? 27.5 billion cubic metres of gas would immediately go to Europe, to Germany. I have no idea why they are not doing it. They can get gas via Ukraine, and they can get it through TurkStream, but they cannot get it through the pipeline that runs along the bottom of the Baltic Sea. In my opinion, this is some kind of professional deformation, schizophrenia, nonsense. Why? Well, if they do not want to, so be it. We will gradually build up our supplies to other regions around the world. We have a good gas shipment project with the People’s Republic of China. We have had it for a long time now, even before the crises in Europe and Ukraine broke out. Next year, we will reach our design capacity of 38 billion cubic metres, plus another 10 billion cubic metres will go from the Far East, the Sakhalin-Vladivostok gas pipeline, to the People’s Republic of China. We are considering other routes as well. Let me repeat, this has nothing to do with the events in Ukraine, it is simply our agreements of many years ago, and we will implement them all. Plus, we will develop gas liquefaction. Yes, they are trying to create problems for us here as well. Mr Leonid Mikhelson knows this better than anyone else. But still this is evolving, and Russia’s share in the supply of liquefied natural gas to the world markets is gradually increasing. It is not as big as we would like it to be, but we will still do it, despite whatever problems they are trying to create for us. What is the challenge here? No matter who or how anyone tries to shut down our energy sector, it is impossible, because production is at its highest point in line with the needs of the world market. It is simply impossible, do you understand? It is impossible. Let’s imagine that tomorrow they would shut down everything – our gas, oil, and so on. The world economy will not withstand such a shutdown. The prices will skyrocket, but they will still buy, they cannot do it without it. That’s the whole point. After all, when our ill-wishers and those who impose illegal restrictions, about which the Vice President of the People’s Republic of China spoke, do it, they do it from a pure heart, but not from a great mind, as they say in such cases, because there is no result. What is the only thing that guides them? Arrogance and overconfidence. And the result is the opposite of what they expect. So we will resolve our issues – yes, with some losses, perhaps, but we will resolve them all the same. And those who do not want to cooperate with us – well, let them suffer losses. We see what is happening in European countries. Many of them are on the brink of recession. And the situation will get worse because those who supply them with energy resources care first of all about their own national interests, the United States for that matter. Well, they are supplying them two or three times … Or by how much? 50 or 60 per cent more than our energy resources cost, I mean gas, first of all. Of course, the European economy, including Germany’s, which was designed to rely on our energy resources, is undergoing very serious trials. Many industries are simply closing down. That’s the whole point. But it is not our choice, we are ready, you are welcome. Agree with Poland to open up the pipeline systems, they do exist. It was the Poles who shut down the Yamal-Western Europe pipeline. Now Ukraine is closing it, and the Nord Stream 2 route along the Baltic Sea bed is not turned on. Well, if they don’t want to, they don’t have to. It will be a loss for them. For us, there will be a certain reduction in revenues, but it’s no big deal. Gazprom will supply more gas inside the country. That’s good, too. We will be developing social gas distribution. I have already mentioned that we are reaching design capacities of supplying gas to the People’s Republic of China. As for supplies to Central Asia and Iran, this also has nothing to do – I want to make it clear – directly with the developments in Ukraine. It is just because the economies of these countries are enjoying a rapid growth – they need additional resources, as simple as that. For instance, Uzbekistan – I have already mentioned and this is a well-known fact – has a population growth of a million per year. Do you realise this? More than a million per year. There are already 37 million people there, soon it will be 40 and so forth. The economy is growing as well, do you understand this? And they have obligations on external markets. Of course, the republic needs additional resources. Two years ago, the temperature reached minus 21 degrees Centigrade, the first time in history, probably. Of course, they need the resources which we have. We will agree on our actions with Turkmenistan, of course. Iran has long been asking us for supplies. This is a very convenient place for us, too, as it is not far from us. We are contemplating this project and I believe it is quite feasible. And let’s not forget the markets neighbouring with Iran are huge – there is a colossal need. Different opportunities exist, and we will explore different markets, we will make swap arrangements, will liquify as I have already mentioned, and so forth. We will be gradually restoring sales volumes – no doubts about this. And we will develop our own economy. We lack gas-fired power generation in many regions, including the Far East. We need to unite the gas transportation system’s European part with the Far Eastern one to ensure corresponding gas crossflows. This is all part of our plans. All of this will be implemented. This matter must be front and centre for us. It mostly deals with operating shipments, but this includes the ships transporting these goods, as well as the vessels that enable these ships to sail this route. I am referring to the icebreaker fleet. Russia has a unique icebreaker fleet. We have 34 diesel icebreakers of various classes and capacity, as well as seven active nuclear icebreakers. Another four are under construction, or, to be more precise, we are already building three new nuclear icebreakers and the construction of the fourth one will start in early 2025. Seven plus four makes 11. There is also another icebreaker – a very powerful one. In fact, it is extremely powerful with, if I am not mistaken, 136,000 horsepower, if we measure its output this way. I am talking about the so-called Lider project. Its construction is already underway here in Vladivostok at Zvezda shipyard. This fleet will be able to ensure year-round shipments, since the new icebreaker, especially the Lider, is not only very powerful, but also wide enough to escort ship convoys. This is the first thing I wanted to say on this topic. Second, we need to build ships for transporting these goods. Of course, we will expand our shipbuilding capabilities in Russia’s European regions too, just as we discussed yesterday with VTB CEO, Mr Kostin, as well as representatives he delegated to the United Shipbuilding Company. There is potential for developing shipbuilding capabilities in the European part of Russia as well. But you were spot on when you said that yesterday we visited the site when a new shipyard will be built. I am certain that we will build it, just as we built Zvezda in the Far East, in Vladivostok, despite all the formidable challenges we had to face. We must build infrastructure, port facilities, and we need to be able to offer the corresponding maintenance services at these ports, while also ensuring safe navigation, protecting the environment, etc. All this forms a single whole, we have plans and projections for all these undertakings, and we are moving in this direction. I am certain that we will deliver. Climate change is a factor. Coupled with the capabilities we have thanks to our icebreaker fleet, I am confident that we have everything it takes to ensure year-round navigation along the Northern Sea Route. This is instrumental for the Russian economy, as well as for the global economy and for our friends and their economies. In particular, the People’s Republic of China has been eager to work with us in this sector. We will be happy to welcome everyone willing to contribute to these efforts. There is no doubt that we will succeed in this undertaking. А Mr Prime Minister quoted Tolstoy and Chekhov. А And you are already quoting Mr Gref – he is also among the classics. Well, that’s good. But, in general, of course, this effect is expected for the market not to overheat and macroeconomic indicators not affected. But nevertheless, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we have a very good track record in construction. We can quote Mr Mutko more often – we used to quote him more often – he is also a great expert in expressing himself vividly and aptly on certain issues. Anyway, he is working very well. А Yes, from that very bottom, and the result is good enough. I am saying this with no irony, no jokes. Because the result is 110 million square metres built, including the work of his corporation , that he heads. What I want to say is that we have a very good backlog – 160, maybe even a little bit more, 163–165 million square metres –the backlog of construction that has been started. Therefore, I think there will be no failure next year. I think that Russia is already one of the global leaders when it comes to mining crypto currency. This is attributable to the surplus energy capacity we have in Siberia. But certain challenges have surfaced in this sector recently, and we had to address them. Of course, we are happy for the businesses working in this sector. They have been able to earn hefty profits. However, we must make sure that the surplus electricity in Siberia does not turn into a deficit. This could hold back the development of Siberian regions. Mining is great, of course, but building housing, manufacturing facilities and social infrastructure, as well as ensuring power supply for future manufacturing facilities is just as important, or perhaps even more important than that. This is why the Government has taken a decision with the intention to make sure that this sector operates in an orderly manner. As for the digital currency and the digital ruble, the Central Bank has made a decision on this matter. It is now a matter of expanding this sector. Our national currency exists in several forms, and the digital ruble is one of them. Both economic operators and our people will be able to use it. I share many of the things we have just heard from our guest. Russia is not guided by any momentary considerations in this regard. We have always proceeded from the existing solutions. I believe that these approaches provide a foundation for the settlement process, primarily the two-state solution. By the way, many people around the world share this view. As strange as this may seem, this is what many people in the United States believe too. Unfortunately, this remains an outstanding issue, while it underpins the current escalation and the ongoing confrontation. Among other things, present-day challenges stem from the attempts by the United States to privatise the settlement process, but the United States cannot be regarded as a neutral actor. This is where the problem lies. Let me reiterate that we will do everything in our power, just as I said during my recent meeting with Mr Abbas when he visited Moscow, to contribute to resolving this lingering crisis with all its hardships. As for the humanitarian issue, of course, we are trying to find solutions on matters involving hostages. In fact, we have been able to achieve tangible results on this front, and cannot but welcome these developments. We will try to keep moving in this direction. Growth of population. We need to create the environment, we spoke so much about today, to increase birth rate and the desire among young people, to come here to this wonderful, brilliant region with good prospects and cast in their lot with it. Thank you. The question about the future, isn’t it? Russia has to ensure economic growth using its own technological solutions with highly-qualified, trained and motivated personnel. This is the first point. And, as for all of us together, referring to the countries of the Global South in a loose sense – we definitely need to ensure global leadership in the economy. And in the light of the trends of the global economic growth and development rates of our countries, this objective will definitely be reached. I believe we are coming to an end, and for my part, I would like to thank our guests for their bright and thoughtful remarks, participation in our work and attention to the developments in Russia and Russia’s Far East. I would like to address the audience. It mostly consists of economists or civil servants who are involved in discussion of these issues. I have to say that I am deeply convinced that entrepreneurship means creation, first and foremost. If we treat this as a creative process, we will definitely achieve all the goals we set and resolve all the tasks we are facing. I would like to thank you for taking part in this work and wish all of us success in implementing our plans! Thank you very much! And many thanks to our moderator. Thanks a lot for the joint work.
Mr President, friends, I am sincerely delighted to visit the hospitable Mongolian land once again and to celebrate, in an impressive setting, the anniversary of our common victory in the Battle of Khalkhin Gol together with our Mongolian friends. We are paying tribute to Soviet and Mongolian soldiers who fought in those intense and bloody battles. Their feat will forever be remembered by our nations, and it will be emblazoned in the history of Russia and Mongolia. The courage and fortitude of the heroes of Khalkhin Gol stopped a dangerous enemy who hatched far-reaching plans to occupy the whole of Mongolia. The victory at Khalkhin Gol greatly influenced the destinies of the region and the entire course of World War II. After sustaining the defeat, Japan refrained from attacking the Soviet Union, and our country was able to deploy all its forces, including fresh Far Eastern divisions, against Nazi Germany. Of course, we remember the substantial support offered to us by the Mongolian nation during World War II, during the Great Patriotic War. Mongolia assisted the front by supplying food, warm clothing and also raised funds to manufacture tanks and aircraft. Loyal to the traditions of combat brotherhood laid down by our fathers and grandfathers, Russia and Mongolia continue to actively collaborate and to develop their all-encompassing strategic partnership. I would like to stress that Russia has always aimed to strengthen friendly relations with Mongolia; it has perceived and continues to perceive this as one of its foreign policy priorities. In turn, we appreciate the fact that Mongolia also steers towards mutually beneficial cooperation with us. Our current talks with President Ukhnaagiin Khurelsukh and other Mongolian leaders have clearly confirmed this. All meetings took place in a traditionally constructive and substantive atmosphere and made it possible to review a wide range of issues and topical regional and international problems, and to chart future prospects of our diverse partnership. The people of Mongolia have a
Shortly before my next visit to friendly Mongolia, I would like to share my vision of the history, current state and the future of bilateral relations on the pages of your authoritative newspaper. I would like to point out from the outset that the development of comprehensive and mutually beneficial partnership with Mongolia, our close neighbour and old friend, has always been and remains among the priorities of Russia’s foreign policy in Eurasia. Our states and peoples are linked by decades of fruitful cooperation in nearly all areas. I would like to remind that our country was the first in the world to recognise Mongolia’s independence in 1921 and for a long time remained the only guarantor of its sovereignty and security. During the summer of 1939 – a critical period for Mongolia – the USSR, which remained committed to its duty as an ally under the Protocol on Mutual Assistance of March 12, 1936, immediately responded to the Mongolian government's request for assistance in repelling the Japanese aggression in the battles on the river Khalkin Gol. Over 10,000 Red Army soldiers and commanders sacrificed their lives in that battle for Mongolia’s freedom and independence. I would like to take this opportunity to commend the noble and selfless labour of Russian and Mongolian volunteers who continue their work today to identify and bury the remains of the fallen heroes. Symbolically, the new interstate treaty, which formalised our bilateral relations as those of comprehensive strategic partnership, was signed on September 3, 2019, in Ulaanbaatar on the sidelines of the events marking the 80 th anniversary of our joint victory over the Japanese militarists at Khalkhin Gol. I am planning to take part in the upcoming anniversary celebrations in your capital these days. Ten years ago, together with our Chinese counterparts, we supported the Mongolian initiative to establish a Russia–Mongolia–China trilateral cooperation mechanism. On September 11, 2014, the first such summit was held in Dushanbe on the sidelines of the meeting of the SCO Heads of State Council. Over the past years, we have laid a solid foundation to underpin the development of comprehensive mutually beneficial cooperation. In 2015, together with our colleagues, we approved the relevant ‘roadmap’ I am convinced that progress in bilateral, let alone trilateral, cooperation can only be achieved if it is beneficial to all the parties involved. As you know, the initiative to create the Russia–Mongolia–China Economic Corridor was initially put forward by the leadership of your country as part of the Mongolian Steppe Road Initiative implementation. Among the achievements, I can refer to the fact that over the past ten years, the freight traffic on the Ulaanbaatar Railway increased by half to reach a record figure 32.4 million tonnes in 2023. Transit container cargo transportation between Russia and China through the territory of Mongolia has also increased significantly. Over the recent years, all Mongolian presidents, regardless of their party affiliation, have raised during negotiations the issue of building a main gas pipeline from Russia to China through Mongolia. In 2021 it was decided to embark on preparatory work. A specialised joint company, Soyuz Vostok Gas Pipeline, was established, which is carrying out design and exploration works in line with the approved schedule. Work continues on the design of the Soyuz Vostok gas pipeline stretching over 960 First of all, I would like to note that the regular elections to the State Great Khural in June were held successfully. The electoral process was organised at a very high level, as was confirmed, inter alia, by Russian observers sent to Mongolia. We respect the choice of the Mongolian people. As far as I remember, this is by no means the first time Mongolia has had a coalition government. I am confident that the cabinet reshuffle will not affect our countries' mutual desire to further develop our comprehensive strategic partnership and expand our bilateral cooperation. Indeed, almost all Western countries where our journalists try to work, are creating obstacles for them, banning Russian television channels and directly censoring our media and online resources. Certainly, this runs counter to the democratic principles of freedom of speech and free flow of information. Yet all our media do is convey and explain Russia's point of view on current pressing issues and global processes. As they do so, they act in a respectful way and comply with the norms of morality and ethics as well as national legislation of each particular country. So the West, which claims to be a model of freedom, has opted to hide from inconvenient facts and the truth by launching a blatant bullying campaign against Russian journalists and indiscriminately labelling them as ‘ Kremlin propagandists. ’ In Russia, the mass media are free. This is solidly guaranteed by our Constitution. We are convinced that pluralism and openness in the information space are vital. Our authorities cooperate constructively with television channels, news agencies, newspapers, online media and other media outlets, regardless of their editorial policy. The only thing they are required to do is to comply with Russian laws. This should be understood by foreign journalists accredited in Russia. That is the way to strike the necessary balance between the freedom of press and ensuring national security that you have mentioned. The current leaders of the International Olympic Committee, acting at the behest of the collective West – primarily the United States – are flagrantly flouting the Olympic ideals they should be defending. Instead of promoting the rights of athletes, the integrity and universality of the Olympic movement, they are clinging to their social position, power and personal prosperity. Our athletes are excluded from the competitions, our national symbols are banned. It has come to the point where the words ‘ Russia ’ and ‘ Russian ’ are completely expunged from international tournaments. All of this blatantly violates the fundamental principles of the Olympic Charter, which states that sport, which should bring people together, and not divide them, should not be politicised. Until recently, this was cited as the reason why the Olympic Games should be kept open and accessible to all athletes without exception, regardless of their citizenship, race, ethnicity or political beliefs. Russia strongly believes that sport should be kept politically neutral and recognises that is has a great role to play in strengthening people-to-people ties, establishing mutually respectful communication, forging relations between states and peoples in the spirit of peace and good neighbourliness, equality and non-discrimination. Therefore, we will pursue more democracy in the sports movement, strive to remove artificial barriers and restrictions, and expand the range of national and international sporting events. The current situation in Ukraine has been significantly influenced by a whole range of external and internal factors. Soviet leaders' decisions on the national and territorial issues also had their negative effect. I would like to remind that the process of the creation of Ukraine started immediately after the 1917 revolution, when unstable and fragile quasi-state formations without clear borders emerged in that territory. Later on, the boundaries of the constituent USSR republics were marked rather randomly, based on the ‘proletarian necessity.’ Thus, the industrial Donbass populated predominantly by Russians was handed over to Ukraine. Subsequently, just before and after the Great Patriotic War, Joseph Stalin gave to Ukraine, as an inalienable part of the Soviet Union, certain lands that had earlier belonged to Poland, Romania and Hungary. In 1954, Nikita Khrushchev made a generous present to Ukraine by giving it Crimea, which had been part of the RSFSR. It should be understood that the Soviet leaders acted under the geopolitical realities of their time, not expecting at all that the USSR would cease to exist and break down along artificially drawn internal administrative boundaries. So no doubt, the current developments do have historical roots. At the same time, the main reason for today’s tragic situation in Ukraine is the deliberate anti-Russia policy pursued by the US-led collective West. For decades, they have sought total control over Ukraine. They funded nationalist and anti-Russia organisations there; they persistently worked to convince Ukraine that Russia was its eternal enemy and the main threat to its existence. Ukraine virtually turned into a bargaining chip that the West used to achieve its geopolitical ambitions. In 2014, the Americans and their satellites organised an armed coup d'état in Ukraine. It was inspired and driven by radical neo-Nazi groups, which subsequently came to determine Kiev’s government policy in general. For many years, millions of civilians in Donbass have had to survive genocide, shelling and blockade on the part of the Kiev regime. The hatred for everything Russian has become Ukraine’s official ideology. The use of the Russian language has been increasingly restricted, and the canonical Orthodoxy has been subjected to persecution, which now has come to the point of a direct ban. What we see today is the natural outcome of the destructive strategy of the West towards Ukraine. On top of that, Western elites continue to lend a large‑scale political, financial and military support to the current regime, regarding it as a weapon against Russia. We are well aware of that and will keep struggling to achieve all the tasks of the special military operation in order to ensure the security of Russia and its citizens.
Friends, foreign guests, ladies and gentlemen, I am delighted to welcome all the participants and guests of the Army 2024 International Military-Technical Forum. This is a major forum which attracts high representatives. Held for the tenth time, it invariably enjoys a lot of attention on behalf of specialists, experts and media outlets from across the world. We appreciate this attitude and have been doing everything to support it, since we treasure our partnerships and are committed to developing them by working together with others in order to ensure equal and indivisible security and build a new, fairer multipolar world order. We can see that our commitment to promoting constructive cooperation has resonated with others who were sincere and proactive in their positive response. This year, dozens of countries sent their high-level delegations to Russia, led by heads of their defence agencies. Over 120 foreign companies registered to take part in the event. In addition to this, we offered several foreign exhibitions an opportunity to set up their stands at the forum. In fact, this forum prides itself for this inclusive and truly international scope, our mutual commitment to dialogue, as well as its packed business programme. Of course, the forum’s agenda includes grand-scale presentations of the most advanced and largely unique and unrivalled achievements of Russia’s defence manufacturers and its leading, internationally acclaimed corporations. This includes over 240 export versions of weapons, as well as all kinds of military and specialised hardware. Let me emphasise that many of Russia’s advanced, unique and innovative solutions have already proven their worth on the battlefield. Moreover, we improve their basic performance all the time. Designers, engineers, scientists and teams working at defence manufacturing plants have been proactive in their efforts to take into account the combat experience we acquired during the special military operation. It is also essential that small businesses, the civil society and patriotic organisations, as well as a massive volunteer movement and the people of Russia in general have all gone to great lengths and have been proactive in supporting the defence industry in the interests of the Russian Army and Navy. Priorities in terms of these joint efforts include modern gear, communications, protection and electronic warfare means, unmanned systems and artificial intelligence. During this forum, about a hundred scientific and business events will be held on these and many other topical matters dealing with military development, military strategy and combat tactics. Friends, The Army 2024 forum offers a very packed and detailed programme. It focuses on its target audience, which consists of military professionals. I have no doubt that this event will help strengthen the existing ties and forge new ones by signing mutually beneficial contracts with Russia’s Defence Ministry and defence industry enterprises. It can also enhance the effectiveness of our cooperation with our close and friendly countries on security matters and in terms of defending our national interests. I wish the participants in this forum every success and all the best.
Ms Matviyenko, Mr Volodin, friends. Dear guests, I am delighted to welcome the participants and organisers of the 10 th BRICS Parliamentary Forum. Also present here in this room is our distinguished guest, President of the Inter-Parliamentary Union Tulia Ackson. Ms Ackson, we consider your participation in the forum as a sign of support for the constructive partnership among representatives of legislatures in the countries of the Global South and East, and indeed, of all countries interested in constructive interaction and cooperation, and their initiatives on key issues on today’s international agenda. See also Meeting with Chairman of the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress of China Zhao Leji July 11, 2024 Meeting with President of the Inter-Parliamentary Union Tulia Ackson July 11, 2024 Meeting with Speaker of the Islamic Consultative Assembly of Iran Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf July 11, 2024 The theme of this forum, The Role of Parliaments in Strengthening Multilateralism for Just Global Development and Security, is extremely important. It speaks for itself, highlighting the nature of the fundamental global transformations underway today. Your open discussions, the face-to-face conversations between legislators representing their voters fully align with the principles that underpin BRICS philosophy. These include consideration of each other’s interests, reliance on democracy in international relations, respect for sovereignty of nations and their right to determine their own development trajectories. These principles are close and understandable to all states parties of the BRICS group, which is growing rapidly and gaining a qualitatively new influence on the global dynamics and developments. Again, parliamentary dialogue, including within the BRICS framework, is more important today than ever. After all, as speakers for the interests of your peoples, as representatives of their political and national will, you are keenly aware of the genuine demands, sentiments and needs of millions, or even billions of people on our planet. I am confident that you will make a significant contribution to the socioeconomic progress of the BRICS countries, and to their citizens’ prosperity. And you will certainly do your utmost to reduce international tensions, to create a more just, democratic, multipolar and multilateral world. We understand very well that formation of a world order that reflects the real balance of forces and the new geopolitical, economic and demographic reality is a complicated and, unfortunately, even painful process – mainly because the efforts of the BRICS members and other developing countries are facing fierce resistance from the ruling elites of the so-called “golden billion” states. Acting contrary to historical logic and often to the detriment of the long-term interests of their own nations, they seek to cement a certain order based on their own so-called rules that nobody has ever seen, discussed or adopted. These rules are written or corrected every time anew, to suit every specific situation and in the interests of those who consider themselves exceptional and arrogated the right to dictate their will to others. This is classical colonialism at its best, a clear attempt to replace legitimate international law and monopolise the ultimate truth – and this monopoly is destructive. The pressure on those who have their own stance is growing. Contrary to the principles of international law, they are using force and coercion, unilateral sanctions, selective application of trade rules, and blackmail. We have seen attempts to restrict direct contacts between lawmakers, which goes against the principle of free interparliamentary cooperation and the sovereign right of official representatives of every state to protect their national interests. That is why today the significance and relevance of collective work by people’s representatives on the constructive agenda of our association are rising dramatically. Let me remind you that the main goal of Russia’s BRICS Chairmanship this year is to create the most favourable conditions for consistent development of all its members. I am convinced that, by acting together in unity, we will be able to fulfill our countries’ potential in the economy, investment, technology, and human capital; to strengthen the positive impact of BRICS on global developments and make the world safer and more harmonious. This year, the number of BRICS members has reached ten. Every state is unique and carries its centuries-old culture, customs and traditions, building its own model of socio-economic and political development. Russia is taking every effort for new members to smoothly fit in the multi-faceted mechanisms of BRICS. I have repeatedly said that BRICS is one of the key elements of the emerging multipolar international system, which increasingly reflects the interests and aspirations of the states of the Global South and East, and other supporters of our philosophy around the world – there are many of them, and their number is growing. We are open to greater cooperation with all countries interested in the BRICS agenda; we are engaged in a dynamic dialogue in the BRICS Plus/Outreach format, and we are in the process of creating the Partner States category. One of the association’s priorities is to achieve positive changes in the global economy. We are specifically focusing on increasing the share of national currencies in trade and investment, as well as creating safe and reliable financial instruments and mechanisms for mutual payments. Growing humanitarian and cultural contacts also play a special role in establishing more trusting, strong and long-term bonds between states. Colleagues and friends, I would like to take this opportunity to invite you to Russia, to the 10 th milestone St Petersburg International Cultural Forum, which will be held on September 12–14. As always, the meeting will feature an informative and candid conversation on the most important issues of the global cultural and humanitarian agenda, and our northern capital, St Petersburg, where we are now, will once again welcome guests from BRICS countries as well as all countries that seek to cooperate with each other. Friends, ladies and gentlemen! We are now past the midpoint of the Russian BRICS Chairmanship. Work is in full swing across the board, covering various areas of cooperation including politics and security, economy and finance, and cultural and humanitarian ties, which I have just mentioned. For example, we have launched regular mechanisms of cooperation in transport and nuclear medicine. The BRICS Sports Games have been a success, with athletes from 82 countries competing for 387 sets of medals. We are going to further increase the pace of our progress. We have many more events planned before the BRICS Summit in October. Once again – openness, justice and equality are the principles that unite the BRICS countries. And parliamentary forums and conferences play a truly enormous role in promoting these principles in global affairs. True, BRICS does not have its own official parliamentary organisation at this stage, but I believe that this idea will definitely be materialised somewhere down the road. And I am sure that your forum will contribute to this. Most importantly, such meetings have already proved to be an example of trust, mutual support and free dialogue; they promote the organisation’s status and its global influence. Allow me to wish you every success, and have a rewarding discussion at the forum. I really do hope that you will also have time to admire St Petersburg; it is a source of pride for Russia and definitely a gem of global cultural heritage. All the best to you and thank you for your attention. Thank you very much.
Ms Kochanova, Ms Matviyenko, friends, I am delighted to welcome the participants and organisers of the 11th Forum of Russian and Belarusian Regions. Our meetings in this format have become a good tradition. This time, about 800 delegates from the majority of the constituent entities of Russian and Belarusian regions are attending the forum, including heads of regions, members of parliament, heads of agencies, business people and representatives of public and youth organisations. All these people are making a concrete and tangible contribution to deepening the allied fraternal relations between Russia and Belarus. It is notable that this year the forum is focused on the role of interregional cooperation in developing the innovative economy of the Union State. This is one of the most topical issues, as Russia and Belarus are actively working to implement new technologies in all economic spheres and to boost the development of science-intensive sectors in industry and agriculture. This is crucial for strengthening the sovereignty of our states, enhancing their competitiveness and ensuring their long-term sustainable economic growth, which naturally requires energetic and creative contributions not only from federal and central authorities but also from the regions. This year, the forum is meeting simultaneously in three cities – Vitebsk, Polotsk and Novopolotsk – at the suggestion of our Belarusian friends. We are using this format of meetings of regional representatives for the first time and I believe that it merits attention. The package of agreements reached at the forum comprises about 250 agreements and commercial contracts worth 24 billion rubles in total. Their implementation will certainly help expand interaction between our regions and promote Russia-Belarus trade and investment cooperation. I would like to emphasise that Belarus is a key economic partner for Russia. At the same time, Russia accounts for about 60 percent of Belarusian foreign trade transactions. Last year, trade increased by more than 5 percent, reaching a record $46.5 billion, primarily driven by region-to-region interaction between manufacturers, wholesale vendors, and logistics centres based in various parts of both countries. Russia firmly holds the first place in accumulated investment in the Belarusian economy with over $5 billion. About 2,500 companies with Russian capital are successfully operating throughout Belarus. Integration processes unfolding within the Union State and the Eurasian Economic Union play a crucial role in deepening region-to-region cooperation between Russia and Belarus. Due to the increasingly close integration, Russian and Belarusian companies can operate within a single economic landscape, regardless of the region they are based in, without any barriers or obstacles. This is particularly relevant in such areas as science, technology and innovation, which were discussed at the forum. I would like to remind you that on January 29 in St Petersburg, Alexander Lukashenko and I approved a new Strategy for the Scientific and Technological Development of the Union State. This document envisages a number of joint high-tech projects for import substitution, the inauguration of advanced production facilities and the launch of competitive products with high added value. These projects will be implemented by Russia and Belarus in the period until 2035. I would like to emphasise that much is already being done in this area between the Russian and Belarusian regions. For example, the Ural Civil Aviation Plant and the aircraft repair plant in Baranovichi, Belarus, have joined forces to develop a light multipurpose aircraft. Manufacturers in Moscow and St Petersburg, the Moscow and Leningrad regions, as well as Minsk and the Minsk Region have established cooperation in the production of optical devices and photonics equipment for communication, data transmission and computer systems. Regional research centres and design bureaus in Russia and Belarus jointly design orbital and ground components of satellite constellations used in Earth observation and navigation. And certainly I cannot fail to mention the largest strategic and innovative Russian-Belarusian project, the construction of a nuclear power plant in the Grodno Region. Contractors from many Russian and Belarusian regions were involved in this project. To date, the Belarusian Nuclear Power Plant has generated over 30 billion kilowatt-hours of affordable and clean energy for the Belarusian economy. I would also like to say that regional research centres and universities are actively contributing to interaction between our academies of sciences and to educational exchanges. In particular, about 12,000 Belarusian citizens are studying at Russian universities, and another 1,300 Belarusian students will have the opportunity to receive state-subsidised education there next year. Friends, In conclusion, I would like to use this occasion to congratulate all our Belarusian friends on their republic’s Independence Day and on the 80th anniversary of the liberation of the hero city of Minsk from Nazi invaders, which will be celebrated on July 3. Russia and Belarus will never forget that during the Great Patriotic War our peoples joined ranks to defend our Motherland, made enormous sacrifices to liberate Europe and made a decisive contribution to saving the world from Nazism. This January, President Lukashenko and I unveiled a new memorial complex in the Gatchinsky District of the Leningrad Region. It commemorates the peaceful citizens of the Soviet Union who fell victim to the Nazi genocide. That monument is one of many joint projects dedicated to the Great Victory. It is vitally important that we regularly hold events in our regions to enhance the patriotic education of our young people, who must know the truth about the immortal and unparalleled heroism of our fathers, grandfathers and great-grandfathers. A relevant example of these joint efforts directly involving our regions is the Memory Train project, which is being held for the third time now. Schoolchildren from Russia, Belarus, Azerbaijan, Armenia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan will travel through Russian and Belarusian cities to see the historical sites and the places where the decisive battles of the Great Patriotic War were fought. In conclusion, I would like to once again wish success to the organisers and all participants of the forum. The results of your joint efforts will undoubtedly help strengthen Russia-Belarus ties for the benefit of our two fraternal nations. Thank you.
Comrade Chairman, Friends, Allow me to once again heartily thank you, Comrade Kim Jong-un, and all our Korean friends for the invitation to pay a state visit to your wonderful and hospitable country. All of us are deeply touched by the cordial reception extended to our delegation. Today’s talks proceeded in a traditionally trust-based and friendly atmosphere and reaffirmed our mutual interest in further promoting equal and mutually beneficial cooperation. This year Russia and the DPRK marked an important date in the history of our two countries’ relations – the 75 th anniversary of the Interstate Agreement on Economic and Cultural Cooperation. It was signed on March 17, 1949, during a visit to Moscow by the founder of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Comrade Kim Il Sung and became the first international treaty concluded by the Democratic People's Republic of Korea after it gained independence. And now, amid the difficult global situation, we continue to strengthen the bonds of comradeship, fraternal support and neighbourliness, building on the glorious traditions established by previous generations. We are actively cooperating in the international arena to promote peace, stability and prosperity in our common region and the entire world. We are thankful to the leadership and people of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea for their balanced position on the Ukraine situation. At present, we are combatting together the hegemonism and colonial practices of the United States and its satellites and are resisting attempts to impose alien development models and values on us. Russia and Korea have a similar proverb,
Events Article by Vladimir Putin for publication in Nhân Dân, the official newspaper of the Communist Party of Vietnam Central Committee, Russia and Vietnam: Friendship Tested by Time June 19, 2024 18:30 On the eve of my next, fifth visit to the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, I would like to share with the readership of the respected and influential newspaper Nhân Dân my vision of the history, present-day state and future of the Russian-Vietnamese partnership. It is symbolic that our upcoming visit to Vietnam will take place around the date that marks the 30 th anniversary of the Russian-Vietnamese Treaty on Foundations of Friendly Relations. This strategic document opened up vast opportunities to strengthen and develop the whole range of bilateral ties, giving them a powerful impetus and increasing their dynamics at the new historical stage. Hồ Chí Minh, the great son of the Vietnamese people and a good friend of our country, stood at the origins of our bilateral cooperation. Russia honours the memory of this outstanding patriot, politician and statesman who always firmly and uncompromisingly defended the sovereignty and freedom of his Homeland. I would like to note that a monument to the first President of Vietnam was erected last year in St Petersburg to commemorate the centenary of his visit to Russia's “northern capital.” Our country significantly contributed to the heroic struggle of the Vietnamese people against foreign invaders. After the victory and complete liberation of the Vietnamese territory from the occupiers, it was Soviet builders, engineers, doctors, teachers and scientists who helped rebuild Vietnam. They put in a lot of effort to develop its economic and defence potential and address top social priorities. These time-proven traditions of fellowship and mutual support provide a solid foundation for furthering the bilateral relations of comprehensive strategic partnership. Vietnam is a vibrant and unique ancient civilization adding to the tapestry of a multipolar world. Hanoi pursues an independent foreign policy in the global arena and strongly advocates a just world order based on international law and principles of equality of all states and non-interference in their internal affairs. We highly appreciate the fact that our countries have coinciding or similar approaches to pressing issues on the international agenda. We work closely together within key international forums, first of all within the United Nations. We have similar assessments of the situation in the Asia-Pacific region. We see Vietnam as a like-minded partner in shaping a new architecture of equal and indivisible Eurasian security on an inclusive and non-discriminatory basis. We are grateful to our Vietnamese friends for their balanced position on the Ukraine crisis and their desire to facilitate the search for practical ways to settle it peacefully. All of this is fully in line with the spirit and nature of our relations. It is important that the two countries have consistently given serious attention to enhancing mutual trade and promoting investment. Thus, according to Russian statistics, bilateral trade increased by eight percent in 2023, and gained more than a third in the first quarter of the current year compared to the same period last year. Food, mineral resources, machinery and equipment are exported to Vietnam. Many Vietnamese goods, including clothing, fruits, vegetables and other agricultural products, are in demand on the Russian market. The 2015 Free Economic Trade Agreement between the Eurasian Economic Union and Vietnam helps reinforce and further develop these positive trends. The possibility exists for our countries to carry out settlements in national currencies – the Russian ruble and the Vietnamese dong. Such transactions accounted for more than 40 percent of bilateral trade last year, and in the first quarter of this year their share rose to almost 60 percent. This is in keeping with the global trend towards phasing out the use of widely discredited currencies in international trade and investment. A major role in ensuring reliable financial settlements is played by the Vietnam-Russia Joint Venture Bank, whose opening ceremony I attended back in 2006. We hope that the Bank will continue its work, contributing actively to the strengthening of economic collaboration between our states. The energy sector remains a strategically important area of bilateral cooperation. The Vietsovpetro joint venture, which has been exploring deposits on Vietnam's continental shelf for more than four decades, has proved highly efficient. The volume of oil it has produced over the years has exceeded 250 million tonnes. Rusvietpetro, a joint venture company established in 2008, is successfully operating in Russia's Nenets Autonomous Area. It has already extracted over 35 million tonnes of oil in the harsh conditions of the Far North. Gazprom, in its turn, is engaged in gas extraction in Vietnam, while another major Russian company, NOVATEK, intends to implement LNG projects on the Vietnamese territory. An initiative is being considered to create a Centre of Nuclear Science and Technology in Vietnam with Rosatom's assistance. In this regard, I would like to note that the Russian state corporation is essentially ready to help Vietnamese partners develop their national nuclear power industry, including in terms of building its human capacity. Our country has traditionally contributed a great deal to the development of Vietnam's hydropower potential. For example, RusHydro is interested in joining the project to reconstruct and increase the capacity of hydropower facilities on Vietnam’s rivers. The Gaz Thanh Dat joint venture to assemble Russian GAZ brand automobiles is expanding its operations in Da Nang. We expect that Vietnamese investors will, in turn, more actively use the ample opportunities offered by the Russian market. The Vietnamese company TH Group, which is constructing milk processing plants in the Moscow and Kaluga regions and in the Primorye Territory, is one example. And I certainly cannot but mention the long-standing traditions of bilateral cooperation in education. Over the past decades, tens of thousands of Vietnamese specialists in various fields have received training or upgraded their skills in our country, and several thousand have obtained academic degrees. We intend to further prioritize partnership in this area. This includes further offering education opportunities at Russian universities to Vietnamese citizens at the expense of the federal budget. We will do our best to promote student exchanges, launch joint academic projects and programmes. The Russian-Vietnamese Tropical Research and Technology Centre, which has been engaged in applied and fundamental research for many years, provides a vivid example of such positive cooperation between our countries. We will definitely continue to develop humanitarian contacts. I know that many Vietnamese understand and love Russian music, literature and cinema. And Russian people show genuine interest in original Vietnamese art. The Days of Vietnamese Culture in Russia, to be held early next month, will provide a better glimpse. Tourism is a sure way to promote mutual understanding between our peoples. Vietnam has long become a popular holiday destination for Russians, and Vietnamese citizens have always been attracted by our country's tourist sights. An increase in the number of direct flights would help intensify mutual tourist flows. Together with our Vietnamese friends, we will continue to develop bilateral ties and cooperation for the benefit of our peoples, for stability and prosperity in the region and the world as a whole. I am confident that our countries, relying on the best traditions of friendship, mutual trust and mutual assistance, will achieve all our ambitious goals. I wish the people of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam peace, well-being and prosperity. Geography Vietnam Topics Foreign policy Publication status Published in sections: News , Transcripts Publication date: June 19, 2024, 18:30 Direct link: en.kremlin.ru/d/74336 Text version
Events Article by Vladimir Putin in Rodong Sinmun newspaper, Russia and the DPRK: Traditions of Friendship and Cooperation Through the Years June 18, 2024 00:00 On the eve of my state visit to the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, I would like to address the Korean and foreign audience of the Rodong Sinmun newspaper to share my thoughts on the prospects for partnership between our states and on their role in the modern world. The relations of friendship and neighbourliness between Russia and the DPRK, based on the principles of equality, mutual respect and trust, go back more than seven decades and are rich in glorious historical traditions. Our peoples cherish the memory of their difficult joint struggle against Japanese militarism and honour the heroes who fell in it. In August 1945, Soviet soldiers, fighting shoulder to shoulder with Korean patriots, defeated the Kwantung Army, liberated the Korean peninsula from colonisers, and opened the way for the Korean people to develop independently. As symbol of combat brotherhood of the two nations, a monument was erected in 1946 on the Moranbong Hill in the centre of Pyongyang to commemorate the liberation of Korea by the Red Army. The Soviet Union was the first among the world’s states to recognise the young Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and establish diplomatic relations with it. As early as on March 17, 1949, when the founder of the DPRK Comrade Kim Il Sung paid his first visit to Moscow, the USSR and the DPRK signed the Agreement on Economic and Cultural Cooperation, establishing a legal framework for further strengthening of their bilateral interaction. Our country helped the Korean friends to build their national economy, create a healthcare system, develop science and education, and train professional administrative and technical staff. In 1950–1953, during the difficult years of the Fatherland Liberation War, the Soviet Union also extended a helping hand to the people of the DPRK and supported them in their struggle for independence. Later on, the Soviet Union provided significant assistance in restoring and strengthening the national economy of the young Korean state and in building a peaceful life. My first visit to Pyongyang in 2000 and the return visit of Comrade Kim Jong Il, Chairman of the National Defence Commission of the DPRK, to Russia the following year marked new important milestones in the relations between our countries. The bilateral declarations signed back then defined the main priorities and areas of our constructive multidimensional partnership for years to come. Comrade Kim Jong Un, who leads the DPRK today, confidently continues the policies of his predecessors – prominent statesmen and friends of the Russian people, Comrades Kim Il Sung and Kim Jong Il. I had another chance to see it when we met last September at the Vostochny Cosmodrome in Russia. Today, as before, Russia and the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea are actively advancing their multifaceted partnership. We highly appreciate the DPRK’s unwavering support for Russia’s special military operation in Ukraine, their solidarity with us on key international matters and willingness to defend our common priorities and views within the United Nations. Pyongyang has always been our committed and like-minded supporter, ready to confront the ambition of the collective West to prevent the emergence of a multipolar world order based on justice, mutual respect for sovereignty and consideration of each other’s interests. The United States is going out of its way to impose on the world what it calls the “rules-based order”, which is essentially nothing more than a global neo-colonial dictatorship relying on double standards. Nations that disagree with such an approach and pursue an independent policy face increasing external pressure. The US leadership views such a natural and legitimate aspiration for self-reliance and independence as a threat to its global dominance. The United States and its satellites openly declare that their objective is to inflict a “strategic defeat” on Russia. They are doing everything they can to protract and further exacerbate the conflict in Ukraine, which they have themselves provoked by supporting and organising the 2014 armed coup in Kiev and the subsequent war in Donbass. What is more, over the years they have repeatedly rejected all our attempts to resolve the situation peacefully. Russia has always been and will remain open to equal dialogue on all issues, including the most difficult ones. I reiterated this at my recent meeting with Russian diplomats in Moscow. Our adversaries, meanwhile, continue to supply the neo‑Nazi Kiev regime with money, weapons and intelligence information, allow – and, effectively, encourage – the use of modern Western weapons and equipment to deliver strikes on the Russian territory, aiming at obviously civilian targets in most cases. They are threatening to send their troops to Ukraine. Furthermore, they are trying to wear out Russia’s economy with more new sanctions and fuel socio-political tension inside the country. No matter how hard they tried, all their attempts to contain or isolate Russia have failed. We continue to steadily build up our economic capability, develop our industry, technologies, infrastructure, science, education and culture. We are pleased to note that our Korean friends – despite the years-long economic pressure, provocations, blackmailing and military threats on the part of the United States – are still effectively defending their interests. We see the force, dignity and courage with which the people of the DPRK fight for their freedom, sovereignty and national traditions, achieving tremendous results and genuine breakthroughs in strengthening their country in terms of defence, technology, science and industry. At the same time, the country’s leadership and its head Comrade Kim Jong Un have repeatedly expressed their intention to resolve all the existing differences by peaceful means. But Washington, refusing to implement previous agreements, keeps setting new, increasingly harsh and obviously unacceptable requirements. Russia has incessantly supported and will support the DPRK and the heroic Korean people in their struggle against the treacherous, dangerous and aggressive enemy, in their fight for independence, identity and the right to freely choose their development path. We are also ready to closely work together to bring more democracy and stability to international relations. To do this, we will develop alternative trade and mutual settlements mechanisms not controlled by the West, jointly oppose illegitimate unilateral restrictions, and shape the architecture of equal and indivisible security in Eurasia. It goes without saying, we will develop people-to-people interaction between our countries. We plan to promote academic mobility between Russian and Korean higher education institutions, mutual tourist trips as well as cultural, educational, youth and sports exchanges – everything that makes communication between countries and nations people-centred, everything that enhances confidence and mutual understanding. I am convinced that our joint efforts will take our bilateral interaction to a higher level, which will facilitate mutually beneficial and equal cooperation between Russia and the DPRK, strengthen our sovereignty, promote trade and economic ties, people-to-people contacts and, ultimately, improve the well-being of the citizens of both states. I would like to extend wishes of good health to Comrade Kim Jong Un and those of peace and great success on the path of development – to the friendly people of the DPRK. Geography Democratic People’s Republic of Korea Topics Foreign policy Publication status Published in sections: News , Transcripts Publication date: June 18, 2024, 00:00 Direct link: en.kremlin.ru/d/74317 Text version
Mr President, colleagues, friends, We are very pleased to see in this wonderful hall so many responsible executives who make decisions that not only apply to the industrial sectors but have a regional dimension as well. The overall success of our, without a doubt, noble cause which is designed to expand Uzbekistan-Russia relations will largely depend on your effective work. The Council of the Regions of Russia and Uzbekistan will undoubtedly take into account the positive experience gained over the years of holding the Forum of Regions of the two countries. Most importantly, the new format should be different not only in name, but in substance as well. In particular, I am confident that the central authorities from both countries will pay greater attention to inter-region cooperation. We have done so at the suggestion of the President of Uzbekistan. In fact, we have combined the visit with the work of a representative delegation of the Russian Federation Government in Tashkent, and a meeting of regional leaders. See also All news about state visit to Uzbekistan May 26 − 28, 2024 Indeed, regions play a key role in strengthening relations of comprehensive strategic partnership and alliance between Russia and Uzbekistan and make a significant contribution to expanding the entire range of our relations. The meeting of the Council in Tashkent brought together representatives from different regions, including 22 Russian governors and 14 Uzbek akims, heads of ministries, agencies, lawmakers, representatives of business, scientific and civic circles. In other words, everyone who in practice promotes neighbourly Russian-Uzbekistan relations, including trade and the economy. The agenda of the Council of the Regions is quite extensive. It includes such topical issues as the deepening of industrial cooperation, cooperation in agriculture, as well as introduction of innovations and digital technology. Overall, 78 out of the 89 constituent entities of the Russian Federation are engaged in mutually beneficial partnership with regions of Uzbekistan. These direct contacts, active and proactive joint efforts of the regions and authorities, regional management teams and business circles are filling Russia-Uzbekistan cooperation with specific content and engaging more and more participants in it. The contractual and legal framework of interregional cooperation and interaction is being continuously expanded and supplemented. The governments of the two countries’ regions have several dozen agreements. Over 20 agreements and commercial contracts, including those aimed at developing trade and mutual investment, are ready for signing in the Council. During the past talks with the President of Uzbekistan, we noted with satisfaction that trade is confidently on the upsurge. Last year, it increased to almost $10 billion. My colleague just said how many contracts are to be signed, for what amount and what investment is planned. You said this is equal to 45 billion in US dollar equivalent. No doubt, this will produce a very good effect, an impetus to the development of our trade and economic ties. E-commerce is making rapid headway. Thus, in 2023, the total amount of products traded by salespeople from Uzbekistan at the Russian Wildberries internet platform grew by 93 percent to reach US$418 million. Suppliers from Uzbekistan may soon enter another big Russian marketplace – Ozon. Over 3,000 companies with Russian participation are already operating in the Uzbekistan market. Mr Mirziyoyev has just mentioned this as well. This is every fifth company out of companies with foreign capital operating in the country. To fund promising projects implemented in Uzbekistan with the participation of the two countries’ regions, they are establishing a special investment fund with a total amount of US$500 million. This has just been mentioned as well. The Russian side is ready to put in its share that amounts to US$400 million. The assets have been allocated and prepared. It only remains to deal with technical details. This work will be completed in the next few days. These funds will be channelled into the most diverse areas of the republic’s real economy sector. In April, Tashkent successfully hosted the 4 th INNOPROM. Central Asia International Industrial Trade Fair. Many Russian regions showcased their expositions featuring numerous joint projects with Uzbekistan. Thus, companies from Tatarstan are helping their colleagues to modernise heating systems in the Tashkent Region and provide specialised equipment for medical universities in Uzbekistan. I visited Tatarstan and saw for myself that it produces top level medical equipment. It has every right to be proud of it. It is a good partner for Uzbekistan. Companies from the Ivanovo Region buy high quality Uzbek raw materials for producing cotton products and textiles. The Chelyabinsk Region supplies the republic’s oil-and-gas sector with automated equipment. In turn, companies from the Novosibirsk Region are exporting to Uzbekistan equipment for mining and processing rare earth metals and gold. Rostov’s Rostselmash organised assembly of agricultural equipment in Uzbekistan. Russian combine harvesters manufactured at Uzbekistan plants are also highly sought-after in third countries’ markets. We maintain diverse regional cooperation in the cultural and humanitarian area. Every year musical festivals and concerts, theatre guest performances, film screenings and museum exhibitions take place with the regions’ participation. The holding of Cross Days of Culture has become a good tradition. Thus, this year Tashkent will host Days of Moscow. In addition, the St Petersburg Trading House will open in the capital of Uzbekistan. Naturally enough, the regions’ cooperation is giving an additional boost to the development of tourist exchanges between the two countries. The tourist flow doubled last year to reach 1.2 million trips. Russians are eager to visit historical and cultural centres of Uzbekistan – Samarkand, Bukhara and Khiva. Tashkent is developing rapidly and turning into a wonderful city. It was a great city but a lot had to be done since the Soviet times, and the President is paying enormous attention to this. We have just been to the Victory Park. I advise our tourists to go there as well when they visit Uzbekistan, including Tashkent. In conclusion, I would like to emphasise once again that Russia-Uzbekistan interregional cooperation and interaction has very broad and promising prospects. Together with the President of Uzbekistan, we will support your constructive initiatives and new joint projects. I would like to cordially wish success and good results to the participants in the Council of the Regions meeting. I am sure they will achieve them. Thank you. 
Friends, colleagues. I am delighted to welcome you to the opening ceremony of this major joint exhibition, the 8 th Russia-China EXPO, as well as the 4 th Russia-China Forum on Interregional Cooperation, which is taking place as part of the EXPO. The fact that Harbin is hosting these two important events is highly symbolic, since Harbin is one of China’s biggest centres for research, education and innovation. This is the first time I am visiting this city, and I have to say that it is very impressive. What a modern, beautiful and vibrant metropolis! At the same time, it has its own unique identity, rich history and traditions. Since its founding in the late 19 th century, Harbin has been a symbol of the close ties linking Russia and China and their intertwined destinies, and the mutual enrichment of their cultures and traditions. By the way, as we drove through the city centre, it was immediately apparent that the historical district has a distinct Russian feel. Russian engineers and scientists played a significant role in the city’s economic development at the time, and to building its production base, major plants, factories and infrastructure facilities. Harbin is a city that commemorates our nations’ brotherhood-in-arms. More than 12,000 Soviet fighters perished in the battles to liberate Northeast China from Japanese invaders. It was Harbin that on September 16, 1945, hosted the joint Victory Parade to commemorate the end of hostilities on the Pacific Front and of World War II. More than 300,000 people took part in the ceremony. It was a joyful celebration of the long-awaited peace and unity of the two peoples. We have just laid flowers at the memorial to Soviet soldiers and officers. I am extremely grateful to the people of Harbin and the Chinese officials for preserving the memory of our liberators and our shared history of military glory. They have taken great care of our shared historical, spiritual and cultural heritage. Building upon the glorious traditions of neighbourliness, friendship and cooperation, we can confidently look forward and embark on ambitious projects together, charting and implementing our grandest plans. President Xi Jinping and I discussed in detail the prospects of developing this close and multi-dimensional cooperation during our talks last night. I believe we can take pride in the products of Russia-China economic links and cooperation. Just a few years ago, a turnover of $100 billion in bilateral trade was considered a major success. Today, we have exceeded $200 billion. Chinese data shows $240 billion, to be more precise. And we can go even further. The inseparable partnership between Russia and China directly contributes to the growth of both economies, ensuring our energy security, creating new production facilities and high-paying jobs, and ultimately improving the wealth and quality of life of our citizens. I am confident that our strategic alliance in the energy sector, which serves as a key pillar of the entire global energy market, will continue to grow stronger. Russia is ready and able to provide the Chinese economy, companies, cities and towns with sustainable, clean and affordable energy, electricity and heating as a reliable and failsafe supplier. We also have large-scale joint projects in industrial cooperation. Chinese automobile manufacturers are actively entering the Russian market. We are promoting the programme for developing a wide-body long-range aircraft and a heavy-lift civilian helicopter. I
I am pleased to be able to address the multimillion audience of Xinhua, one of the world’s leading and most trusted news agencies and share my vision of the future Russia-China partnership. I would like to highlight that it has always relied on the principles of equality and trust, mutual respect for the sovereignty and consideration of each other's interests. A special and prominent role in the development of our relations has belonged to wise and shrewd politicians and state leaders, such as Xi Jinping, President of the People's Republic of China. We first met back in March 2010, and we have been seeing and calling each other regularly ever since. President Xi maintains a respectful, friendly, open and at the same time business-like style of communication. Our every meeting is not just a dialogue between old friends, which is important, too, just like for everyone, – but also a fruitful exchange of views on the most topical issues on the bilateral and international agenda. I have fond memories of the state visit of President Xi Jinping to Russia in March 2023, immediately after his re‑election as President of the PRC. Just like in 2013, our country was the first one he visited as head of China. We had more than five hours of a face-to-face conversation, and the next day we followed an extensive and substantive official schedule. This unprecedented level of strategic partnership between our countries determined my choice of China as the first state to be visited after the official inauguration as the President of the Russian Federation. I have emphasized on many occasions that our peoples are bound by a long and strong tradition of friendship and cooperation. That is one of the most important pillars of bilateral relations. During World War II, Soviet and Chinese soldiers stood up together against Japanese militarism. We remember and value the contribution of the Chinese people to the common Victory. It was China that held back major forces of Japanese militarists, making it possible for the Soviet Union to focus on defeating Nazism in Europe. And, of course, we are grateful to our Chinese friends for their carful attitude to war memorials, to the memory of Soviet citizens who had fought for the liberation of China and supported the revolutionary struggle of the Chinese people, their righteous fight against the invaders. Today, Russia-China relations have reached the highest level ever, and despite the difficult global situation continue to get stronger. This year is special for our countries. October 1 marks the 75 th anniversary of the establishment of the People's Republic of China. The country is approaching this significant historical date with outstanding achievements, which we welcome as old, reliable and time-tested friends. The USSR was the first to recognize the PRC on the second day of its existence. So in early October, we will also celebrate the 75 th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations. Over the three quarters of a century, our countries have travelled a long and at times difficult way. We have learnt well the lessons of the history of our relationship at different stages of their development. Today, we know that the synergy of complementary strengths provides a powerful impetus for rapid comprehensive development. It is important that Russia-China ties as they are today, are free from the influence of either ideology or political trends. Their multidimensional development is an informed strategic choice based on the wide convergence of core national interests, profound mutual trust, strong public support and sincere friendship between the peoples of the two countries. I am talking about our joint efforts to strengthen the sovereignty, protect the territorial integrity and security of our countries. In a broader sense, we are working to contribute to the development and prosperity of Russia and China by enhancing equal, mutually beneficial economic and humanitarian cooperation, and strengthen foreign policy coordination in the interests of building a just multipolar world order. All this is the key to a future success of our comprehensive strategic partnership in the new era.
Dear veterans, residents of Leningrad, Mr Lukashenko, friends, Today is a special day. Its significance cannot be measured except in the feelings experienced by every person in the worn-out and heroic besieged Leningrad in January 1944. Exactly 80 years ago, the enemy siege of Leningrad was completely lifted. Its great destiny, struggle, courage, and victory will forever remain one of the most tragic but also triumphant chapters in the history of Russia and the entire world. The Nazi directive “On the Future of St Petersburg” explicitly stated that the city was to be besieged and, I quote, “wiped off the face of the earth.” Any possible proposals for surrender, according to this directive, “must be rejected.”
Mr Lukashenko, friends, January 27 is one of the most important dates in our shared national history. On this day in 1944, Red Army soldiers completely lifted the siege of Leningrad. One year after that, in 1945, they liberated Auschwitz. These two events are not only connected by the same historical era. The tragedy and martyrdom of the people of Leningrad and the prisoners of death camps will forever serve as evidence of the monstrous nature of Nazism and the unimaginable suffering of millions of innocent civilians. For eight decades now, our pain for these terrible victims, for the shattered destinies, and for everyone who endured incredible ordeals has not subsided. Our compassion is passed on from generation to generation and has no statute of limitations, just like the crimes of Hitler’s fanatics and their accomplices, those who cold-bloodedly planned and cruelly carried out the genocide of the Soviet people. These crimes were not committed on the battlefield. The massacres of unarmed and defenceless elderly people, women, children, and disabled were deliberate, systemic punitive acts. Civilians accounted for over half of the Soviet Union’s total losses during the Great Patriotic War. This is compelling evidence that the Nazis and their satellites were not merely fighting a political regime or an ideology. Their goal was to seize Russia’s rich natural resources and territories, as well as to exterminate the majority of its citizens. For the rest, they envisaged the role of slaves, stripped of their native culture, traditions, and language. These malicious goals are reflected in many Nazi documents and were realised through horrifying mass executions and murders of civilians. Belarusian Khatyn and Bryansk Khatsun, Krasnoye, Babi Yar, Zmiyevskaya Balka and Zhestyanaya Gorka are just a fraction of the sites where these massacres took place. Death became an industry in concentration camps, ghettos, and prisons in Germany, occupied Austria, the Netherlands, Czechoslovakia, Poland, and the Soviet Union. There was a death camp here, in Gatchina, and near it there was a camp where young children were kept literally as blood donors for Nazi soldiers. The siege of Leningrad stands out for its unprecedented cruelty and cynicism. The Nazis decided to exterminate an entire city. Over a million civilians, let me stress this, peaceful civilians living in Leningrad became victims of hunger, cold, constant shelling, and bombings. These figures were recorded by reputable historians and scholars through research conducted on documents and verified in courts. Further investigations will be continued to uncover other crimes committed by the Nazis during the war against the peaceful population of our country. It is to them, all the peaceful people of the USSR who lost their lives in the Nazi genocide, who the memorial we are unveiling today is dedicated to. It is a symbol of our memory and our sacred duty to investigate all crimes and bring those responsible to account. It is important for us today and for the future. We are witnessing a disturbing trend where the outcomes of the Nuremberg trials, which unequivocally condemned Nazism, are being revised.
Mr President, friends. I would like to warmly welcome you and all the participants in today's ceremony for pouring the first concrete into the foundation of the fourth power unit of the El-Dabaa nuclear power plant. In fact, this is the beginning of a new stage in the construction of the first nuclear power plant in Egypt, a project of major importance for Russian-Egyptian relations, which will undoubtedly make a significant contribution to the development of the Egyptian economy and help strengthen its energy base. We will contribute to the creation of modern production facilities, skilled jobs, and the resolution of social issues. We will do this together because the new energy system allows us to do all this. This is truly a flagship project in the best traditions of our bilateral cooperation. Let me remind you that in the second half of the last century, Soviet specialists played a very active role in restoring Egypt's economy and improving its defence capability, and helped build large industrial and energy facilities, such as the Aswan Dam. Many jointly created enterprises are still operating successfully and continue to bring tangible benefits to the people of Egypt. The multifaceted and mutually beneficial cooperation between our countries continues to develop consistently. It is true that Egypt is our close friend and strategic partner. Our interaction is based on the principles of equality, mutual respect, and consideration of each other’s interests, in accordance with the letter and spirit of the Agreement on Comprehensive Partnership and Strategic Cooperation, which we signed with Mr el-Sisi in 2018 in Sochi. Bilateral trade is growing actively and has increased by 20 percent in the first ten months of 2023. Major joint projects are being implemented, including in the fuel and energy sector, agriculture, and food cooperation. Work is underway to create a Russian industrial zone in the Suez Canal region. New promising opportunities for boosting our fruitful cooperation are emerging in connection with Egypt’s membership in BRICS Background information BRICS . I want to emphasise that from the very beginning, Russia sincerely supported the Egyptian party’s desire to become a full member of this association. During Russia’s BRICS chairmanship this year, we will do our best to help Egypt in joining the organisation’s work in the most efficient way. We plan to hold over 200 BRICS events and we hope that Egyptian representatives will take an active part in them. And, of course, we look forward to your presence, Mr el-Sisi, at the BRICS summit in Kazan this October. I must say that the El-Dabaa Nuclear Power Plant project was launched with mine and the President of Egypt’s direct participation. Mr Minister just informed us about it. I clearly recall that the document on the enactment of the contract for the construction of the power plant was signed during my visit to Egypt in December 2017. We have been monitoring the implementation of this contract together since then. Overall, there is regular contact with Mr el-Sisi. Last year, we met during the second Russia–Africa Summit. We regularly discuss all issues on the international and regional agendas that are of importance to our countries. In particular, we exchange views and coordinate our positions regarding the tragic developments in the Palestinian-Israeli conflict, and we also address humanitarian issues. As for nuclear power generation, I would like to say that Rosatom is building four power units with an aggregate capacity of 4,800 megawatts at the nuclear power plant in Egypt. This was already mentioned. The Generation III+ reactor units can produce up to 37 billion kilowatt-hours of electricity a year, or about 10 percent of the country’s electricity consumption. Unlike coal and gas power stations, nuclear power plants will not emit carbon dioxide into the atmosphere, which will certainly have a beneficial effect on the environment and people’s health. Rosatom is a trusted leader in the field of nuclear power generation. They use the most advanced engineering solutions and economically effective and reliable technologies in the construction of nuclear power plants. At the same time, it strictly complies with Russian safety standards, IAEA standards and regulations and the strictest environmental requirements. I would also like to mention the coordinated work of Russian and Egyptian engineers and workers at the El-Dabaa construction site. Thanks to their efforts, the construction of the power units is proceeding in accordance with the approved timeframe and solutions are being found to the most complicated engineering, assembly, and technical issues. Over 16,000 people work at the project every day, the majority of them Egyptians who are working side by side with Russian personnel. Moreover, the implementation of a considerable number of contracts that are vital for the future nuclear power plant has been localised in Egypt, which offers great opportunities for involving Egyptian businesses in the project. Incidentally, Russia is training highly skilled industry personnel for Egypt within the framework of cooperation under the El-Dabaa project, as a Rosatom representative, the company’s head, has said. Over 90 Egyptian students have received education in nuclear engineering at our universities, and another 150 Egyptian students are now studying there. In other words, we are providing assistance to our Egyptian friends in all spheres of the nuclear project life cycle, including our obligations for long-term supply of nuclear fuel, technical maintenance of the nuclear power plant, and spent nuclear fuel handling. We are doing everything possible to help develop a fundamentally new industry – nuclear power engineering – in Egypt. In conclusion, I would like to thank all the Russian and Egyptian participants in the project for their selfless and dedicated work and to wish them all the best. Thank you for your attention. President of Egypt Abdel Fattah el-Sisi el-Sisi Abdel Fattah President of the Arab Republic of Egypt : In the Name of Allah, the Most Beneficent, the Most Merciful! Mr President of the Russian Federation Vladimir Putin, Ladies and gentlemen, First, I would like to express our sincere gratitude for and joy over the noble participation of my dear friend, His Excellency President Vladimir Putin in this ceremony to mark the pouring of the first concrete into the foundation for the fourth power unit at the El-Dabaa Nuclear Power Plant; this means that the Republic of Egypt can start the main stage of construction of all power units. I would also like to thank all those present at the ceremony. Ladies and gentlemen, I am delighted and proud to share this historical moment with you, an event that will go down in the history and memory of our people as evidence of the undaunted resolve of our great people, whose determination and efforts have been creating our history over many centuries. Today, they are writing a new page in our history by realising the dream of all the Egyptians to have peaceful nuclear power plants and reaffirming their resolve to continue on the path of development and construction towards Egypt’s bright future. The great event that we are witnessing today represents a bright new page in the close cooperation between Egypt and the Russian Federation. This latest achievement has been added to the long history of achievements in Egyptian-Russian cooperation. It reflects the scale of both sides’ efforts to work towards implementing Egypt’s national project to build the El-Dabaa NPP. This project is moving faster than the agreed-upon schedule; it is overcoming the time restrictions and other difficulties. This reflects the fact that the Egyptian state attaches great significance to the energy sector, and that it believes in its vitally important role as the main driving force of economic growth and as a pillar of economic and social development in accordance with the Sustainable Development Strategy : Egypt Vision 2030 . Ladies and gentlemen, The current crisis in global energy confirms the significance of the Egyptian state’s strategic long-term policy on reinstating the national peaceful nuclear programme because it facilitates a safe, affordable, and long-term power supply and helps reduce dependence on fossil fuels and prevent price fluctuations. Adding nuclear power to the energy balance on which Egypt relies for power-generation purposes has vital significance for meeting specific demands. It meets Egypt’s demand for electricity needed to implement economic and social development plans. It also helps expand the use of new and renewable energy sources for attaining environmental sustainability and combating climate change. In conclusion, I would like to thank His Excellency President Putin once again for taking part in this event. I would also like to express my deep gratitude and appreciation to the staff of the Russian general contractor Atomstroyexport and the Nuclear Power Plants Authority of Egypt which oversee the implementation of this great national project. I wish you good luck in the upcoming stages of the project. Thank you very much. Before I finish, I would like to address my brother, President Putin. I would like to express my deep gratitude regarding your support for this project. Owing to your personal support, I believe that we have been achieving major successes in implementing this project from December 2017 to this day. Thank you very much. I would like to thank everyone. May the peace of Allah descend on you and His mercy and blessings. Geography Egypt Topics Energy Foreign policy Persons el-
Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to show understanding for some delay in holding this ceremony to present your letters of credence. During the first half of the day I had to take part in some public events, primarily a visit to an exhibition at VDNKh. I advise you to find a few hours to see it. You will have an opportunity to see graphic examples of how Russia lives and what life is about here. You will be working and living in this country for several years. First, I would like to congratulate you on the official beginning of your diplomatic activity in the Russian Federation. This is not an easy time, but first I would also like to tell you that at the exhibition, I did not just look at our achievements but also took part in presenting awards to the winners of a volunteer competition. Tomorrow we will celebrate Volunteer Day in Russia. Representatives of 95 countries took part in this competition, including those states whose leaders are restricting relations with the Russian Federation in one way or another. Some participants achieved great results in this competition. Thus, a team of volunteers from the Republic of Turkiye won the competition in its category, support for low-income families. These are large joint efforts in people’s diplomacy. I would like our relations to duly develop not only through people’s diplomacy but also through official diplomacy. You are heading embassies in a very complicated period for international relations when crisis phenomena in global politics and the economy are mounting and regional conflicts are escalating. Indicatively, in case of the deep-rooted Palestinian-Israeli conflict, this tragic situation has taken on the characteristics of a full-on humanitarian crisis. The world entered a time of turbulence. It is undergoing cardinal transformation. The underlying change is that the former unipolar world system is being replaced by a new, more just multipolar world order. I believe this has already become obvious to everyone. Naturally, such a fundamental process will not be smooth, but it is objective, and – as I want to emphasise – irreversible. As for Russia, we pursue an independent, consistent, and principled foreign policy, and we are open to constructive partnerships with all countries without exception, and do not accept bloc confrontation or any steps that run counter to the UN Charter. Our country has no biased or, more over, hostile intentions towards anyone. And of course, we expect that all our international partners will adhere to the principles of equality and mutual respect for each other’s interests. Whether others like it or not, our activity in international affairs will only increase. Next year, Russia will have a number of important foreign policy functions. We will be the first to chair the expanded BRICS association. And we will do our best to help the new members smoothly integrate into the activities of this organisation. In general, we will do our best to promote the group’s role in resolving pressing issues on the global agenda, as well as to make efforts to strengthen the comprehensive strategic partnerships within BRICS, and to develop cooperation in the economic, financial, and other fields. We will enthusiastically prepare for the BRICS summit to be held in Kazan in October 2024 with the new, broader composition. By the way, BRICS sports games will also take place in Kazan next summer. Next year, Russia will also chair the Commonwealth of Independent States – our closest natural partners. And we aim to contribute to building up diverse interaction between them. Of course, we will also further develop integration processes in the Eurasian Economic Union and deepen cooperation within the Collective Security Treaty Organisation. We will pay special attention to working with our partners in the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation, which became the institutional pillar of Greater Eurasia after India, Pakistan and Iran joined the organisation.
Mr Lukashenko, colleagues and friends, The Belorusian chairmanship and the team of all states taking part in this session have conducted active work throughout the year. This work facilitated the consolidation of our allied ties in the CSTO on the principles of respect, consideration of each other’s interests and support. In this way, the CSTO member-countries in effect promoted the CSTO’s key role as a regional defensive structure responsible for the maintenance of peace and stability in the vast Eurasian space. Owing to productive interaction between the foreign and defence ministries, security councils and parliaments, we promptly coordinated our positions on urgent political and military-strategic issues and urgent regional and international problems. My colleagues have just talked about this here. Importantly, this year the CSTO has also developed its contacts with our natural partners, including the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation and the CIS. I would like to make a special mention of our joint efforts to improve the collective rapid deployment forces, aviation and the CSTO peacekeeping forces. A number of measures have been taken to maintain combat readiness, enhance the command and control system and provide more training for military personnel. President Japarov has just spoken about some of these measures. They include exercises code-named Interaction, Search and Echelon in Belarus and the Indestructible Brotherhood peacekeeping manoeuvres in Kyrgyzstan. We have consistently promoted cooperation between our security services and law enforcement bodies. Notably, the CSTO is continuing its Operation Mercenary aimed at preventing the recruitment of citizens of our countries and blocking the channels of their exit for participation in international terrorist groups. Of course, I agree with the assessments of our colleagues. As the President of Kazakhstan has just said, our countries, including Russia, do not accept terrorism in any manifestation and in any part of the world. We implemented together a package of measures on countering extremism, cross-border crime, illegal migration and drug trafficking. The CSTO Coordination Council on Biological Security has launched its work. It has focused on preventing threats linked with the development and use of biological weapons and ensuring radiation, chemical and medical protection. The Council is scheduled to have a scheduled meeting in St Petersburg in December. I would like to mention that the CSTO member countries are expanding their military-technical cooperation. The CSTO Interstate Commission on Military-Economic Cooperation set up at Russia’s initiative is taking an active part in this. Naturally, it is very important that our joint activities in the CSTO facilitate the cohesion of our states and peoples, and help preserve the memory of our common history and achievements. I am sure that all of us will be preparing for worthy celebrations of the 80 th anniversary of our Victory in the Great Patriotic War, in 2025. Next year, 2024, we will observe the 80 th anniversary of the liberation of Belarus and 80 years since the lifting of the siege of Leningrad.  See also Working visit to Belarus. CSTO summit November 23, 2023
Mr Ramaphosa, colleagues, friends, We think the initiative of the President of South Africa, as the current chair of BRICS Background information BRICS , to convene an extraordinary summit to discuss the escalation in the Gaza Strip, has come at the right time. The thousands of deaths and mass expulsion of civilians, the humanitarian disaster unfolding in the area are causing deep concern. Just now, one of our colleagues spoke of the deaths of a large number of children. It is terrible, but when you watch children being operated on without anaesthesia, it certainly evokes intense feelings. And all of that is, in fact, happening as a consequence of the United States’ aspiration to monopolise the mediation role in the Palestinian-Israeli settlement process and block the activities of the Middle East Quartet of international mediators. This is history’s way of demonstrating that attempts to single-handedly cut the “Palestinian knot” are unviable and counterproductive. Because of the sabotage of UN decisions, which clearly called for the establishment and peaceful coexistence of two independent and sovereign states – Israel and Palestine – more than one generation of Palestinians has grown up in an atmosphere of injustice, and Israelis cannot fully guarantee the security of their state either. Russia's stance is consistent and independent of momentary conditions. We urge the international community to join efforts aimed at de-escalating the situation, negotiating a ceasefire and achieving a political solution to the Palestinian-Israeli conflict. The BRICS states and the countries in the region could play a key role in this work. For this reason, it is particularly significant that our colleagues from Middle Eastern countries, which received invitations to become full members of the BRICS this year, are joining our meeting today. I would like to take this opportunity to respectfully acknowledge their efforts to normalise the situation. In particular, I am referring to the Peace Summit hosted by Egypt and the joint Arab-Islamic extraordinary summit in Saudi Arabia. It is worth noting that all BRICS countries have similar positions on the need to collectively reach long-term and durable settlement of the long-standing Palestinian-Israeli problem. This was reflected during voting on the draft resolution on a humanitarian truce in the UN General Assembly and in discussing a UN Security Council resolution on the Middle East settlement process, which was adopted for the first time in the past seven years. Although this resolution contains merely an appeal for humanitarian pauses rather than a full ceasefire, we consider the very fact of its approval a step in the right direction. I would like to emphasise that such humanitarian pauses and, better still, a full ceasefire are essential to continue the efforts to free hostages and evacuate civilians and foreigners from the Gaza Strip. I must express again my deep gratitude to President el-Sisi, and all our Egyptian colleagues for their help in resolving many challenging issues linked with receiving and sending home the Russian citizens that had left the conflict area. Of course, by all accounts, the most urgent goal is to reach a truly long-term and sustainable truce. I agree with my Brazilian colleague that it is important that other states not get drawn into a war in the Middle East and that the conflict not spread in any way, as is preserving the fragile peace between religions. In this context, we consider it extremely useful to continue discussing subsequent developments in the Palestinian-Israeli conflict in BRICS. If there are no objections, colleagues, we will initiate possible contacts, including via videoconference, concerning these issues during Russia’s upcoming BRICS presidency next year. In general, the new format of emergency online summit meetings suggested by President Ramaphosa appears to be quite promising. Importantly, this applies not only to the Middle East settlement but to other urgent global and regional issues. Thank you for your attention.
Colleagues, friends, I am delighted to address the participants of the 19th Russia-Kazakhstan Interregional Cooperation Forum, which I am attending jointly with President Tokayev Tokayev Kassym-Jomart President of the Republic of Kazakhstan . It is important that representatives of more than 30 regions of Russia and Kazakhstan − government officials, lawmakers, representatives of ministries and agencies, businesses, academic community and civil society − have gathered in Kostanay for this event. These are the people who deal with the practical aspects of developing the entire scope of our relations in their work on a daily basis, be it in politics, the economy or humanitarian affairs. It is largely thanks to your energetic and proactive efforts that cooperation between our countries’ regions continues to develop, involving new participants and becoming more practical. As of now, 76 Russian regions have established direct partner ties with regions in Kazakhstan. See also All news about the official visit to Kazakhstan November 9, 2023 It is also important that interregional visits have become regular. This year, for example, very fruitful working trips, as far as I know, have been made by the heads of Yakutia and the Astrakhan and Chelyabinsk regions to various regions in Kazakhstan. Large Kazakh delegations took part in the Krasnoyarsk Economic Forum and the events held on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of Buryatia. We continue to develop and enlarge the substantive legal framework of regional cooperation, which comprises, in particular, over 60 agreements between our countries’ regional governments. As far as I know, a number of new agreements and memoranda, as well as commercial contracts worth in total about $100 million, have been prepared for signing based on the results of this forum. It is a good example of the successful development of Russia-Kazakhstan economic ties. I would like to note in this connection that thanks to the active contribution of our regions, Russia’s trade with Kazakhstan increased by over 10 percent in 2022 and reached $28.2 billion according to our statistics, or $27 billion as the President of Kazakhstan said. In January to August 2023, our mutual trade increased by another 7 percent. At the same time, we are using national currencies for export-import transactions more actively. Russia is one of the major investors in Kazakhstan’s economy, as we heard here earlier. The total volume of Russian investments is slightly lower,
Indeed, Kazakhstan-Russia partnership is of a particularly privileged nature and actively developing nowadays. It is based on the principles of mutual respect, recognition of sovereignty, territorial integrity and non-interference with home affairs. A vast legal basis proves this in particular. We enjoy most versatile mechanisms of interstate communication. First of all, ties between presidential administrations, ministries of foreign affairs, law enforcement and justice bodies, parliaments. Apparently, the Intergovernmental Commission on Kazakhstan-Russia Cooperation led by deputies Chairman of the Government plays an important role. Its regular, very productive meeting took place a week ago in the ancient city of Turkestan. A stock was taken of bilateral cooperation in the field of trade, economy, industries, energy, transport, finance, culture, science, education and tourism. Plans were drawn for future. I would especially note the good rate of growth in mutual trade turnover. Last year, it increased by 10.2% to reach a USD 28.2 bn. record, and in this January – August it grew 7.6% more to equal to USD 18.9 bn. Russia is one of the major investors in the economy of Kazakhstan. The Russian investment accumulated in Kazakhstan equals to about USD 17 bn. Some 6,000 enterprises with Russian participation operate in the Republic. The world’s longest land border helps us interact successfully, enhancing interregional cooperation. For example, 76 of 89 subjects of the Russian Federation are developing effective cooperation with the akimates of Kazakhstan. General public and business community of the two countries actively promote these positive processes. Our shared history, multi-century good-neighbourliness and cooperation, pride for the feat of ancestors who fought against Nazism contributing to the Victory, bring our peoples even closer together and foster the traditionally close mutually beneficial ties. We cherish this precious possession and try to multiply it for the sake of future generations of our citizens. I would like to emphasize that the Kazakh youth is interested in learning Russian language and getting Russian education. We are grateful to our partners for their keen interest in cooperation in the areas of volunteering, culture and humanitarian activities. Thus, our strategic partnership is forward-looking, extensive and multifaceted, time-tested and developing in an upward direction. We have something to offer and we know how to help each other. We will continue to work together, build up our economic and technological potential and improve the quality of life of our fellow citizens. Nature and geography give Russia and Kazakhstan significant competitive advantages in the energy sector, which we strive to maximize for the benefit of our fellow citizens. Leading Russian companies Gazprom, Rosneft, Lukoil and Tatneft, together with their partners from Kazakhstan, are developing fields and building joint ventures to process energy resources and plan to increase mutually beneficial cooperation. Interaction in the gas industry opens up broad prospects. This is explained, among other things, by the infrastructure and routes of gas transmission and gas distribution systems in Russia and Central Asia established over many years and the high level of coordination both bilaterally and multilaterally. Let me remind you that on 7 October, together with the Presidents of Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan, we participated in the ceremony of the launch of Russian natural gas supplies to Uzbekistan via Kazakhstan. This route will make it possible to make the most efficient use of existing gas transport networks and will contribute to the development not only of our three countries, but also of the entire Central Asian region. In the future, we believe it would be advisable to hold consultations with our colleagues from Turkmenistan. They traditionally participate in these markets. It would be in our common interests to involve them in such cooperation. As for Kazakhstan, Russia is ready to assist in gasification of its northern and eastern regions in accordance with the Roadmap for cooperation in the gas sector signed by Gazprom and the Government of Kazakhstan on 18 January this year. Currently, various options are being worked out to debug the relevant gas transmission infrastructure. Among the latest agreements, is a strategic cooperation agreement providing for gas exploration, production, processing and transportation signed on 1 November this year on the margins of the St. Petersburg International Gas Forum by Alexei Miller, Head of Gazprom, and Roman Sklyar, First Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan. Our countries are constructively interacting in the oil sector. Using the logistic facilities of the Caspian Pipeline Consortium, we transport oil to the global markets in the most reliable and cost-effective way. Together with our OPEC+ partners we make a significant contribution to ensuring stability and predictability of the global oil market. By working together we are developing the uranium and mining industries and successfully implementing nuclear fuel cycle and peaceful atom projects. As you know, the leadership of the Republic of Kazakhstan is considering the construction of the nuclear power plant on its territory. If the decision to implement this project is made, Rosatom State Corporation is ready to develop a relevant project using the most advanced technologies in compliance with the highest environmental requirements and safety standards. This will boost energy supply of the economy of Kazakhstan and give a strong impetus to the social and economic development of the country. We consider the development of cooperation between Russia and Kazakhstan in green energy to be rather relevant. We have a lot in common in our approaches to the decarbonisation of the economy and energy transition. Our countries are planning to reach zero greenhouse gas emission by 2060. To do that we need to modernise energy and industrial infrastructures, make greater use of alternative and renewable energy sources and natural gas during the transition period. We need to make effective use of the absorption capacity of natural ecosystems. We are also discussing other formats of joint work. On the whole, we expect that energy needs in Central Asia will only increase in the long run and other interested countries will be able to join our cooperation. As I already noted, interregional and cross-border ties are of extremely great importance for Russia and Kazakhstan and are one of the pillars of the bilateral relations. Naturally, our countries were among the first in the world to introduce the practice of holding interregional cooperation forums with the participation of the heads of state. Such meetings not only foster mutually beneficial relations between the business, cultural, and scientific communities of the two countries, but also serve to work out specific issues that largely determine the prospects of strengthening bilateral relations and giving them practical substance. Aware of the importance of such work, we participate in it together with Kassym-Jomart Tokayev. The theme of the forthcoming 19 th Forum is “Agriculture – the foundation of a robust economy”. Participants will concentrate on pertinent topics, such as food security, the implementation of digital technologies in the agro-industrial complex and the training of young professionals. The meeting should result in the signing of a solid package of interregional agreements and, most importantly, commercial contracts. Mutually beneficial agreements between our entrepreneurs are a key benchmark of flourishing business cooperation. We strive to maximize the benefits of the complementarity and interdependence of our economies in order to increase the competitiveness of Russian and Kazakh products, including, in third markets. Integration trends in the Central Asian region are gaining momentum. This was confirmed by the outcomes of the regular Consultative Meeting of the Heads of Central Asian States held in Dushanbe on 14 September this year. In light of this, the demand for the Central Asia+Russia format is growing. It is evident that our interaction, including in transport, logistics, energy and humanitarian affairs, has expanded beyond the framework of bilateral cooperation. It has the potential to further thrive through the collective endeavour of all parties involved. In addition to high-level dialogue, we maintain links through security councils and other structures. For instance, the six-party contact mechanism for foreign ministers has been successfully developing since 2019. Recently, talks in this format took place in Samarkand on 14 April this year. There are plans to launch the work of the Central Asia+Russia expert groups on sectoral competences. As for the priorities of our interaction with the “six-party cooperation”, they presently involve strengthening political dialogue, as well as cooperating in security, economy and trade, agriculture and food supply, energy, environment, healthcare, sanitary and epidemiological well-being, humanitarian relations, migration, information technologies and mass communications. Development of a new and fairer world order based on the primacy of international law has been a prevailing trend at the current stage of world development. Russia believes that establishment of a common peaceful, stable and prosperous Eurasian space is an integral part of this process. Obviously, it is impossible to address such challenges, which are monumental and global in scope, without consolidated efforts, strengthened mutual trust, and readiness to cooperate and to search for collective solutions. At the same time, respect for the sovereign right of every people to its own development pattern as well as compliance with the principles of the UN Charter in their entirety are necessary and essential preconditions. We assume the establishment of a broader integration track – the Greater Eurasian Partnership – as an important step towards achieving this goal by combining the capabilities of all regional states and multilateral institutions, first of all building upon the Eurasian Economic Union and the Shanghai Cooperation Organization. We have great expectations for the SCO, which brings together 26 states, since this structure has a strong consolidated political and economic capacity and covers a geographical area extending from South and Southeast Asia to the Middle East and Europe. The SCO attracts with its focus on creation and multifaceted cooperation, mutual consideration of interests, equality, openness, and respect for cultural and civilizational diversity. This compares favourably our organization with the “narrow-block” structures with the small number of chosen participants that are promoted by the Western countries. It is no coincidence that the constructive SCO role in ensuring peace and sustainable development has been reaffirmed in the thematic resolution of the UN General Assembly adopted on 28 August 2023. Russia and Kazakhstan as well as a number of other partners founded the SCO in 2001. Fruitful cooperation within the SCO framework has established itself as one of the key pillars for strategic relations of friendship and alliance between our countries. We support the priorities of 2023–2024 Kazakhstan Presidency in the SCO aimed at enhancing its authority and influence in the international arena. We will work towards achieving the goals agreed upon by the SCO leaders in order to further consolidate the organization. We have to pay a particular attention to the implementation of high-level decisions aimed at improving the SCO performance in order to adapt it to present-day realities and enforce the impact of joint measures. I am sure that these goals will be achieved together by all partners. We consider another quite representative regional format that is the Community of Independent States to be an integral part of the efforts aimed at supporting peace and stability in the entire Eurasian space. Russia will chair the CIS from 1 January 2014. Our main priorities include the deepening of economic cooperation, expansion of cultural and humanitarian ties, and contacts in the sphere of security and law enforcement, conjunction of Eurasian integration processes. As for the economic stability, the Eurasian Economic Union, undoubtedly, has a crucial role to play in this area. It provides the conditions for sustainable development of the Member States’ economies, their overall modernization and enhancement of global competitiveness. In current difficult geopolitical conditions the Union focuses on ensuring technological sovereignty, creating an independent financial infrastructure, increasing the share of national currencies in mutual settlements. Russia and Kazakhstan actively cooperate in the sphere of regional security within the CSTO. The events of January 2022, when the CSTO had significantly contributed to maintaining the internal political stability in Kazakhstan, have illustrated the efficiency of addressing the challenges faced by the Organization, in particular, ensuring its sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of the Member States. The next year will be marked by Kazakhstan presidency in the Organization. I am convinced that the initiatives of Kazakhstan partners will consolidate the CSTO potential and promote its empowerment in the interests of all Member States. Transboundary water cooperation issues traditionally occupy a significant place in the agenda of bilateral relations. The Ural River flowing through the territory of Russia and Kazakhstan has important economic, environmental, and even cultural significance for our countries. To preserve the ecosystem of its basin, joint Russian-Kazakh programmes are being implemented, including a wide range of scientific activities to restore the biosphere, identify sources of pollution, and purify water. A substantive dialogue is conducted through federal and environmental agencies, the Russian-Kazakh Commission on Environment, the Commission on the Joint Use and Protection of Transboundary Waters, and the Commission for the Preservation of the Ural River Ecosystem. The same applies to solving the environmental problems of the Caspian Sea, including the shallowing of the water body. We attach great importance to the preservation of populations of rare animal species, in particular the Caspian seal and fish, especially sturgeons. In general, Russia and Kazakhstan prioritize environmental protection, including within the framework of the Caspian Five. To preserve the ecosystem and biodiversity of the Caspian Sea, we are implementing projects to protect mammals and birds, clean the seawater of plastic pollution, breed and raise sturgeons, etc. The Caspian Sea is our common heritage, and we should act here only together, on the basis of partnership and cooperation. There is just no other way to do it. Meanwhile, of course, we do not forget about the economic and logistical potential of our water bodies, and we plan to develop cooperation here, in particular, in the field of shipbuilding and maritime transport. God-neighbourliness and mutual trust are a solid basis for historical affinity of the peoples of Russia and Kazakhstan. And it is logical that we are brought together by bright and fruitful humanitarian initiatives. Each year, major cultural events are organized in Russia and Kazakhstan, covering a variety of areas. The special status of relations between the States is underlined by the international Russian Seasons project organized in the Republic of Kazakhstan in 2023, the ceremonial opening of which took place on 2 March on the stage of Astana Opera, capital’s theatre. The Cross Days of Russia in Kazakhstan and the Cross Days of Kazakhstan in Russia are regularly organized. The events organized as part of these activities are always an important event in the cultural life of our countries. Scientific and academic contracts are expanding. In 2022 more than 60 thousand students from Kazakhstan have studied in Russian institutes of higher education. In 2023/2024 academic year we have increased the number of places for studying with governmental quota by 200. The leader of Russian higher education in Kazakhstan is the branch of Lomonosov Moscow State University. Its graduates, young people, who get a diploma of Russian standard in any sphere – from physics and mathematics to arts – are in demand and, as a rule, don’t have problems in finding a good job. We are planning to increase this cooperation. Branches of other Russian higher education institutes are functioning successfully in Kazakhstan. Taking into account the growing need of studying Russian language in the Republic of Kazakhstan, we are planning to expand common educational infrastructure. For instance, we are ready to apply and develop in the Republic of Kazakhstan the experience in building schools and developing other types of educational activities, increasing the quality of education in Russian language in Kazakhstan, this will become an emblematic project, demonstrating a dynamic development of bilateral cooperation of our States. As Abai Kunanbayev, a Kazakh national thinker and educator, who translated the classics of Russian literature into Kazakh language, I have noted more than once that he and I have developed a truly friendly, close relationship. It’s not surprising. We are people of the same generation and feel equally responsible for our countries. We do our best to provide a favourable environment for their confident development and prosperity, to improve the quality of life of our citizens. We regularly call each other through phone and meet in different formats – we “check our watches” both on the bilateral agenda and on issues of multilateral cooperation. Such personal contacts fully reflect the high level of Russian-Kazakh relations. Most importantly – our peoples have always been and remain good neighbours and faithful friends. I’m convinced that by strengthening the invaluable traditions of trust, mutual understanding and multifaceted successful cooperation, we will successfully implement an advanced model of interstate communication that can be set as an example to others. Therefore, whatever the situation in the world, I look forward to the future of our allied relations and integration partnership with confidence.
Good evening. I am here to answer your questions. Fire away please. The first part of the question was what our conversation focused on. You said yourself that the President of China and I talked for three hours – that is too long to explain in full now. We discussed the entire bilateral agenda, which includes many issues – economics, finance, political interaction, and joint work on international platforms. We discussed the situation in the Middle East at length. I informed the President about the situation in Ukraine in detail. So probably, as we talked for three hours, I would also need three hours to review every detail now. We do not have as much time as that, Look, I have already said this, and I am speaking with absolute sincerity. Look at what China's Belt and Road initiative is – it is a global initiative and concerns practically every region of the world, With regard to the strike on the hospital – the tragedy that happened there, this is a horrible event, which killed hundreds and left hundreds more wounded. Of course, this is a disaster for such a thing to happen in this place, especially considering its humanitarian mission. I do hope that this will serve as a signal that this conflict must end as quickly as possible. In any case, there must be a push paving the way towards the launch of contacts and talks. This is my first point. See also Telephone conversations with President of Syria Bashar al-Assad, President of Iran Ebrahim Raisi, President of Palestine Mahmoud Abbas and President of Egypt Abdel Fattah el-Sisi October 16, 2023 Telephone conversation with Prime Minister of Israel Benjamin Netanyahu October 16, 2023 Second, regarding the impressions I got during conversations with the five regional leaders, these were important talks, and timely too. What do you mean by “covertly confirmed”? First, this is of course a harmful development and creates an additional threat. Second, we can fend off these attacks, make no mistake about that. War is war, and I did say that they pose a threat. This is rather obvious. What matters the most here is that this cannot bring about any radical changes along the line of contact. It is impossible. This we can say for sure. And, finally, You are going too far in talking about “two antagonistic Palestines.” There are differences within the Palestinian community, between the West Bank and Gaza. But I would not go as far as to call them antagonistic towards one another. The way President Abbas responded to these developments demonstrates that he has no enmity towards the Gaza Strip and those in charge of the situation there. This does not mean however that there is no need for them to build closer contacts. This does not mean that the Palestinian community, or society, does not need to strive for its unity. Of course, this is what the Palestinians must strive for. But this is their business. We cannot manage this process. As for the Palestinian statehood, we believe – and this is our principled position which has nothing to do with the ongoing crisis even though it did push this issue to the surface – nevertheless we have always advocated the creation of a Palestinian state that would be independent, sovereign and with a capital in East Jerusalem. We have been talking about this for a long time, the international community has been talking about for a long time, since 1948, in fact, when the objective to create two independent sovereign states was put forward. I do not know whether today’s crisis can help deliver on this task. If this were the case, it would be a step in the right direction since it would create conditions for achieving lasting peace down the road. After all, as demonstrated by today’s crisis, there is no way you can use momentary economic handouts in the way attempted by the United States, in lieu of addressing fundamental political issues dealing with the future of the Palestinian nations. We need to address fundamental political issues. Yes, I had a brief meeting with Vucic. He is concerned about the situation in his region, around Serbia, too. We share this concern. As for my meeting with Prime Minister Orban, you said that he has run out of optimism. I am not sure about that. I believe that Mr Orban is a pragmatic and, in principle, optimistic person. I do not think that he has lost his optimism altogether. But my views regarding that part of our conversation are well known; there is no secret about that. When he asked me about the possibility of a peaceful settlement, I said what I have said many times before, that if the Ukrainian side really wants to negotiate, it should not make any theatrical gestures but instead start by cancelling the presidential executive order prohibiting talks . It is rumoured that they are presumably ready for negotiations now. Several high-ranking officials in charge of foreign policy, who only recently spoke about inflicting strategic defeat on Russia on the battlefield, have changed their tune and say that such issues should be decided through peaceful negotiations. It is a reasonable change, a shift in the right direction, which Mr Borrell is talking about as well. I can commend him for that, but it is not enough. Practical steps must be taken if there is a real desire to hold negotiations. As for Prime Minister Orban, he is often accused of pro-Russian sentiments, which is nonsense. He has no pro-Russian sentiments, and he is not a pro-Russian politician. He is a pro-Hungarian politician. He is mostly criticised not for taking a stand that differs from the positions of other European leaders, but for having the courage to uphold the interests of his own people. Many political leaders in modern Europe lack the courage to do this, they do not have this kind of courage. They envy him, which is why they are criticising him. The last question, please. Excellent. Great. If Russia has lost the war, why are they sending the ATACMS in? Why doesn’t take back the ATACMS and all its other weapons come eat some pancakes and drink some tea with us? If the war is lost, what are we talking about? What are the ATACMS for? Ask them this question. Hilarious. Of course, of course, please. Well, yes, we had a small lunch, a business lunch with foreign ministers from both sides, with aides, and then President Xi suggested speaking in private. He and I had a private conversation indeed, just talked over a cup of tea. We talked for another hour and a half, maybe two hours, and discussed some very confidential issues face to face. It was a very productive and informative part of our meeting. I emphasised that this is not a threat. But we will perform visual control, and weapons-based control over what is happening in the Mediterranean Sea. Thank you very much. Have a good day. Thank you for your attention. Geography People's
President Xi, my dear friend, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to express gratitude to President of China Xi Jinping for inviting me to the Third Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation. See also All news about the visit to China The forum is being held on the 10th anniversary of the initiative Mr Xi advanced, a truly important and global idea that is spearheaded into the future, towards creating a fairer multipolar world and system of relations. It is a global plan, without a doubt. I agree with the President of China that the Belt and Road idea ties in logically with multilateral efforts to promote creative and constructive interaction throughout the international community. We pointed out on numerous occasions that Russia and China, just as the majority of other countries, share the striving for equal and mutually beneficial cooperation towards universal, sustainable and lasting economic progress and social welfare based on respect for the civilisational diversity and the right of every state to its own development model. The Belt and Road initiative is based on these fundamental principles and fits in very well with the integration processes that are ongoing in many regions. It also corresponds to the Russian ideas of creating an integration contour that will ensure the freedom of trade, investment and employment and will be complemented with interconnected infrastructure. It also rhymes with our idea of creating a greater Eurasian partnership as an area of cooperation and interaction among like-minded nations and the alignment of various integration processes, such as the Belt and Road Initiative, the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation , the Association of Southeast Asian Nations and the Eurasian Economic Union , which Russia is successfully developing with its post-Soviet partners. It is notable that Russia and China have reached a practical agreement on a concurrent and coordinated development of the EAEU and the Belt and Road Initiative and a non-preferential agreement on trade and economic cooperation between EAEU member states and the People’s Republic of China. A joint commission has been established to align our efforts to implement this agreement. In February 2023, we adopted an expanded roadmap, which provides, in part, for the development of relations between the EAEU and China in trade policy and the digitisation of transport corridors. I would like to note that the integration agenda in the broadest possible sense of the word is an integral part of Russia’s national development strategy, the strengthening of our economic, technological and financial sovereignty, as well as the modernisation and expansion of infrastructure. The President of China spoke in his address about this form of development in various parts of the world. Colleagues, friends, I would like to tell you about what we are doing in this area in the Russian Federation. I hope and believe that this is important for very many participants in this forum, because Russia is the largest country in the world in terms of territory, and so the connectivity of all the partners across Russia is of great importance to our partners and friends. I will mention some of our forward-looking plans we are already implementing, which harmoniously complement other infrastructure projects in Eurasia, including those that are being implemented within the framework of the Belt and Road Initiative. Taken together, they will allow us to create an integral transport and logistics network and to diversify freight traffic through more effective, reliable and safe transportation. For example, we are building the North-South international corridor in European Russia, which President Xi has mentioned. It will connect Russian ports on the Baltic and Arctic seas to ports in the Persian Gulf and the Indian Ocean. Seamless rail connectivity, as professionals say, will be ensured throughout this route, from Murmansk in the north of Russia to Bandar Abbas in Iran. Another north-south transport artery will run via the Urals region and Siberia. Its main elements are the modernisation of the central part of the Trans-Siberian Railway, including the West-Siberian Railway line running across several regions of Siberia, namely the Omsk, Novosibirsk, Kemerovo and Tomsk regions and the Altai Territory. The other elements are the construction of the Northern Latitudinal Railway, as we call it, towards the ports on the Arctic Ocean and the Yamal Peninsula in the north of the Krasnoyarsk Territory, and a new North Siberian Railway from the Khanty-Mansi Autonomous Area towards our largest railway network comprising the Trans-Siberian Railway and Baikal-Amur Mainline. At the same time, we are working jointly with our foreign partners to build railway lines from Central Siberia towards the south of the country, towards China, Mongolia and the ports of the Indian and Pacific oceans. Lastly, we are planning to build one more Arctic-South corridor in the Far East; we are currently preparing the necessary elements. It includes a railway line running from the Baikal-Amur Mainline to Yakutia, across the large Siberian rivers Lena and Amur , the Pacific Railway Line, the modernisation of motorways, and the creation of deepwater terminals in the eastern part of the Northern Sea Route. These north-south transport corridors in European Russia, Siberia and the Far East will allow us to directly connect the Northern Sea Route and to integrate it into major logistics hubs in the south of our continent on the Indian and Pacific oceans. As for the Northern Sea Route, Russia offered its partners the opportunity to actively use its transit potential. More than that, we are inviting all interested countries to get directly involved in its development, and we are ready to provide reliable icebreaker escort, communications and supplies. As soon as next year, navigation for ice-class vessels along the entire length of the Northern Sea Route will become possible all year round. The creation of the international and regional logistics and trade routes I have mentioned objectively reflects the deep changes that are ongoing in the global economy and the new role the Asia-Pacific and Global South countries and other centres of growth and development are playing now. In this context, Russia, which will assume the rotating chairmanship of the expanded BRICS next year, has advanced the initiative of establishing a permanent transport logistics commission within the framework of this group. This commission of BRICS members, partner countries and other interested states could focus on the development of the entire complex of international transport corridors. I would like to add that these issues are on the agenda of the Transport Week, which is held in Moscow every year. Friends, we invite professionals from your countries to take part in the next such event, which will be held in the Russian capital in mid-November. In conclusion, I would like to express confidence that the Belt and Road Initiative, the Russian priorities I have presented and the constructive and ambitious proposals by other countries, including those that are attending this forum, will help us find collective and truly effective solutions to really important current regional and international issues. Colleagues, friends, when a major project is launched, everybody hopes that it will succeed. However, to be honest, it is difficult to expect that all its elements will be successful, considering the global scale of the initiative advanced by the President of the People’s Republic of China 10 years ago. Our Chinese friends are working successfully. We are happy for them, because this also concerns many of us. The President of China has just now presented a large programme of constructive actions aimed at achieving a common result. I would like to wish success to the People’s Republic of China and the President of China in the implementation of these plans, and to all of us in the implementation of our projects. I wish all the best to all of you. Thank you. Geography People's
You know the point is… First of all, I believe that President Biden is certainly one of the most experienced politicians in the world, in terms of his time in the so-called upper echelons of power. He has been in politics for a long time and, of course, he is an experienced person who knows what tasks he should set for himself and how to achieve them. If they have no other tasks but how to construct relations with Russia, that’s fine in a sense. See also All news about the visit to China So, despite the experience I have mentioned, still…We have a well- This is not about me personally. This is about the country’s interests, and it is impossible to put down Russia’s interests, they will have to be taken into account. Regarding my counterpart today, Mr Orban, the Prime Minister of Hungary, he is part of a small cohort of European politicians who know how to assert their interests. He does this persistently, consistently, and in my view, quite tactfully. Our views do not always overlap, and moreover, we often find ourselves on entirely different platforms. But this does not prevent us from talking and looking for solutions to various issues and problems. Geography People's
Thank you very much. I celebrated it with my friends and family. It was fine. Thanks God I do. I think that this is necessary, first and foremost, in order to be able to work hard. Exercises are not an objective in itself. But they provide a means to achieve really important goals, an opportunity to work hard in a way that would make it possible to achieve the necessary results. Yes, I started skating just ten years ago. Before that, I had not been able even to stand up on skates. But ten years ago I tried, then started to play, and I’m still at it. And I enjoy it. Team sports are always interesting and exciting; they grab your attention and allow you a break from the routine. Of course. It was just the same thing for me. I hope that sports cooperation with our Chinese friends will also actively evolve. Wushu is very popular in Russia. I hope it will grow even more so; and we would also like to show our Chinese friends our national martial arts, as we call them, such as sambo wrestling . I will certainly discuss this issue with your President during my visit, suggest we cooperate on a mutual basis, and ask him to support initiatives of young people, athletes, in order to expand collaboration in sports. Please go ahead. Relations between Russia and China – you know, I am telling you what immediately comes to my mind after you asked your question – have not been shaped to suite the current global environment; nor are they the result of a short-term political opportunism. Russian-Chinese relations have been shaped for twenty years in a careful, phased-out manner. At each step, the Russian and Chinese sides have both guided themselves by their own national interests as they understood them. While encouraging the other side to take the next step, both have always taken into account each other’s opinions and interests. We have always tried to reach a compromise, even on complicated issues inherited from the old days. Our relations have always been driven by goodwill. It helped us solve the border delimitation issues that had remained outstanding for 40 years. Our shared desire to remove all possible obstacles to our joint progress in future was so huge that we managed to compromise in a mutually acceptable way. And then we began to develop economic cooperation, also gradually, filling the niches that were once owned by other countries in our relations, but were not as effective as our mutual cooperation in a particular area. For instance, in the area of energy that has a special place in our relations. Russia now ranks first among Chinese partners in the supply, for example, of energy to China in value terms. China progressively became Russia’s first trade partner in terms of trade turnover, and Russia gradually rose to the sixth place among China’s trade and economic partners. What would I note? We had different ratios for exports and imports at different times. For our part, we have tried to cover the needs of the Chinese economy, and our Chinese friends have never ignored our views as regards some imbalances, particularly in trade in manufactured goods. We have been gradually, step by step and year by year increasing and improving this trade balance. That is the way we are advancing in almost every area. Not to mention the role that Russian-Chinese relations play in ensuring stability in the world. Relation between Russia and China are a fundamental factor. All of this together leads us to believe that we are moving in the absolutely right direction and in the interests of both the Chinese and Russian peoples. Our economic relations diversify from year to year. Indeed, as I have said, we have an extensive scope of cooperation in the field of, say, energy, and it is very diverse. This is not only the supply of oil and gas. In the field of oil, a pipeline is operating steadily, and pumping volumes are increasing. The same goes for the Power of Siberia gas pipeline. Now we have good prospects, we have already signed an agreement on the Far Eastern route, and one more route, the Power of Siberia 2 that goes through Mongolia, is being worked out. The amount of coal and electricity supplied is increasing and we continue to build nuclear units. And not only to build units at two plants, but we are working on a fast neutron reactor, which will provide us with an entirely new way of building relations in this high-tech energy sector as it creates conditions for a closes cycle and, in fact, there will be virtually no waste. We do have a very good prospect in other industries. These are automobile construction, shipbuilding, aircraft construction, and electronics. I have mentioned automobile construction. Look, just yesterday I talked to some people who could well be called car enthusiasts with a great and long experience. And in all sincerity, not knowing that we were going to have an interview today, I have no doubts, or, let us be more cautious, I am almost certain. In the previous period, we had 32 per cent growth in trade, which is a very good one. There is every reason to believe that we will reach $200 billion mark by the end of the year. You know, when we talk about the UN Sustainable Development Goals, there is more than one, two or three of them, I believe there are 17 actually. The struggle for the environment and the fight against climate change both are very important areas, but they are not the only ones. One should not forget, for example, the fight against poverty. I think we will think of something…I have already said that the countries of the Eurasian Economic Union have already secured $24 billion in investments by working together on the Belt and Road Initiative. But this volume is growing because the number of mutually beneficial projects is increasing. They are not only beneficial to the countries that receive some loans under this initiative. They are also beneficial to the People’s Republic of China, because it also receives products from the implementation of these projects and gets conditions for better and greater development. All this is done on the basis of mutual benefit. We have joint projects. Perhaps it is too early to dwell upon it, but I am sure that contracts will be signed; new contacts will be established between economic actors; heads of governments, various ministries and departments cooperating directly will meet. I am not going through all of it now. I have familiarised myself with the Russian government’s proposals in various areas. They are running over several tightly printed pages, and each project may represent something we will work on for more than a year, perhaps a decade. Thus I have the best expectations, including from contacts with my colleagues. You know, it seems to me that the main advantage of the concept of cooperation proposed by the Chinese side is that nobody imposes anything on anybody in the framework of this work. Everything is done within the framework of finding not only acceptable solutions, but such projects and such ways of achieving a common goal that are acceptable to all. This is what makes China today, under the leadership of President Xi Jinping, Indeed it is. Sports cooperation as part of humanitarian cooperation is very important because it establishes direct people-to-people contact. It is no surprise that our athletes have fans in China, because they are true stars. We also follow the success of Chinese athletes with great respect, always looking at how the work is organized. Certainly, we know about Chinese athletes. We know about gymnasts, for example, and other sports. It is important that China has brought the work in high-performance sports to a good professional level. No doubt, it is equally important to establish contacts at other, more modest levels. I refer to cooperation in PE, contacts between the regions, competitions between universities, and between Chinese provinces and constituent entities of the Russian Federation. I think we should think of it as well. I suppose it would be very interesting. In fact, as far as I know, this is what is being done within the interregional cooperation. My colleagues are also paying the necessary attention to this. I am sure that it will go on this way, continue in this vein. You know what is important? That our sports cooperation is devoid of any political or economic conjuncture. Unfortunately, modern international sport is more and more immersed in commerce. We have nothing of this sort in our sports relations and I hope we never will. Everyone knows and it’s not a secret that I come from a simple working-class family, and in the past I had a lot of time to spend in the yard. I don’t know how my life would have turned out if I hadn’t taken an interest in sports. It doesn’t really matter what kind of sports I did, it’s important that I paid a lot of attention to it. And immediately there appeared priorities to assert myself not in the yard, not in some, let’s say, not very disciplined youth environment, but to assert myself on sports grounds, in my case, on tatami. You have just said “rule-based order”. Have you ever seen those rules? No, you haven’t, because no one has agreed on them with anyone. So how can one talk about order based on rules that no one has ever seen? In terms of common sense, it’s nonsense. But it is beneficial to those who promote this approach. Because if no one has seen the rules, it only means that those who talk about them are making them up themselves from time to time to their own advantage. That is the colonial approach. Because colonial countries have always believed that they are first-rated people. After all, they have always talked about bringing enlightenment to their colonies, that they are civilized people who bring the benefits of civilization to other nations, whom they consider second-rate people. No surprise today’s political elite, say, in the United States, talks about its exceptionalism. This is the extension of this colonial mindset, meaning that when they consider themselves exceptional in the United States, it means that other people, all the people in fact, are just some second-rate people. How else could one understand it? Those are mere vestiges of colonial thinking, nothing else. Our approach is quite different. We proceed from the fact that all people are equal, all people have the same rights; the rights and freedoms of one country and one nation end where the rights and freedoms of another person of an entire state appear. This is the way in which a multipolar world should be evolving gradually. This is exactly what we are striving for, and this is the basis of our interaction with China on the international stage. First of all, I want to say that the expansion itself was quite uneasy. It was a challenging, I would even say difficult dialogue. But largely due to the efforts of our Chairperson, the President of the Republic of South Africa, Cyril Ramaphosa , we managed to come to this consensus and to reach an agreement. What is at the core of the expansion process? This process is based on objective reality. The multipolar world is creating by itself, as a matter of fact. We can speed up this process or someone can try to slow it down and maybe even achieve some kind of reduction in the pace of building a multipolar world. Anyway, its creation is inevitable. It is happening on its own because of the growing potential of many countries, including, not least, the growing potential of the People’s Republic of China. India is growing in Asia, Indonesia is also growing, many other nations in Latin America like Brazil, and Russia is getting back on its feet and gaining strength. Our countries do have their problems, and what countries don’t? There are always problems of some kind. But it’s not about that, it’s about growing our potential, and this growth is evident, including in the economic sphere. As for BRICS, at the time of the Johannesburg summit, the ratio of the G7 and BRICS economies was already in favour of BRICS in terms of purchasing power parity. After six members had joined BRICS, this ratio shifted even more in favour of the BRICS countries. Once again, this is a manifestation of the objective process of forming a multipolar world. This means that all those who have joined BRICS support the idea and concept of forming a multipolar world. No one wants to play second fiddle to some sovereign, everyone wants equal rights. And when they join BRICS, they see that we can achieve this goal by joining efforts within the framework of expansion and strengthening of such a format. Thank you for bringing this up. As far as I understand, these ideas were first formulated in general terms in about 2013 during President Xi Jinping’s visit to Moscow, where he spoke at the Moscow State Institute of International Relations and brought this up for the first time. Of course, this is a global approach to human history. For sure, everything is interconnected. And today, with the formation of a multipolar world, these ideas have become even more relevant. He spoke about it in 2013, and today these ideas are actually being realized. This is extremely important. Once again, I The thing is that President Xi Jinping calls me his friend, and I call him my friend, too. We have a We are thankful to our Chinese friends for trying to think about ways to end this crisis. However, I would like to remind you that hostilities in Ukraine did not start with our special military operation, but way before – in 2014, when the Western countries, after having volunteered as guarantors of the agreements between President Yanukovich and the opposition, forgot about those guarantees in a matter of days and – worse still – supported a coup d’état. United States Administration officials even acknowledged spending big money on it – five billion, they said, if memory serves me, – and now we have what was bound to happen. I am not going to dwell on whether it was a revolution or whether it was a colour revolution, but it was anyway a coup d’état. Yes, it had to do with mistakes made by the then leadership, but those mistakes needed to be remedied through democratic procedures, rather than by means of militants in the streets. But Western countries chose otherwise – to support a coup d’état. And then, essentially by proxy of the Kiev regime, they started hostilities in the south-east of Ukraine, in Donbass, and continued those hostilities for eight years, killing women and children. The West paid no attention to that or pretended not to notice. Even when agreements were signed in Minsk, Belarus, known as the Minsk Agreements, Russia did everything to follow this path towards settling the conflict. They did not let us do that, either. Moreover, Ukraine’s leaders ultimately said that they simply did not like those Minsk Agreements and they were not going to fulfil them. This was aggravated by the United States’ attempts to drag Ukraine into NATO, which led to the escalation of the conflict. Let me remind you that, when Ukraine gained independence – or proclaimed its independence – it was the Declaration of Independence that served as the fundamental document laying the basis for Ukrainian independence. The main principle enshrined in this Declaration of Independence was that Ukraine is a neutral state. Yet in 2008, for no good reason – there was no crisis in sight – they announced that they would welcome Ukraine in NATO. Why? Still no one understands. And thus, year by year, they would heighten the tensions. Then, finally, the 2014 crisis hit, the hostilities broke out. This took the escalation to a new level. Therefore, the start of the special military operation was not the start of a war, but an attempt to end it. Yes, we have always said that, too. We said that security of one group of states cannot be built at the expense of security of other states. Security needs to be the same for everyone. In this context, it is extremely important for us that Ukraine stays outside any blocs. We were told as far back as 1991 – by the then US Administration – that NATO would not expand further east. Since then, there have been five waves of NATO expansion, and every time we expressed our concerns. It was a pleasure for me to do this for Chinese viewers, listeners. I would like to thank you from the bottom of my heart and extend my best wishes to the citizens of our friendly neighbour, the People’s Republic of China. Thank you. Geography People's
Mr President, Comrade officers, dear friends, We have gathered here to celebrate, in an impressive setting, the very significant 20 th anniversary of establishing a consolidated Russian airbase in the city of Kant, the Kyrgyz Republic. This is a milestone for cooperation with our Kyrgyz friends in defence and for strengthening overall regional security. I would like to recall that this Russian airbase was established in Kyrgyzstan following a proposal by the Kyrgyz leadership during a complicated period when international terrorists attacked the republic from Afghanistan. The deployment of our military contingent became a decisive factor in countering and fighting this threat that emanated from another country. Over the past 20 years, the airbase has played and continues to play a key role in ensuring the security of Kyrgyzstan and providing air support for the Rapid Deployment Forces of the Collective Security Treaty Organisation in the Central Asian region. Russian service personnel stationed in Kyrgyzstan are serving honourably; they are successfully accomplishing their diverse objectives and helping Kyrgyz law enforcement agencies fight extremism, terrorism, illegal drug trafficking and organised crime. The airbase operates under CSTO’s primary objectives. For example, its aircrews were involved in the organisation’s special mission to reinstate law and order in Kazakhstan in January 2022. I would also like to point out that today service personnel from Kant Airbase are taking part in the CSTO collective force exercise, Indestructible Brotherhood-2023 being held in Kyrgyzstan and, together with units from other member states of the organisation, are training to work as a team in peacekeeping operations. I would like to emphasise that the service personnel at Kant Airbase work professionally, with full dedication, showing bravery and heroism. It is no coincidence that many of them have been honoured with Russian state awards, including the Order of Courage. And of course, I would like to thank our Kyrgyz friends for their assistance in the operation of the airbase in the Republic and for their kind attitude towards our service personnel and their families. We certainly value this. For my part, I would like to assure you that Russian leadership will continue to pay close attention to providing the airbase with the most advanced weapons, modern equipment and facilities. We will do everything necessary to resolve any domestic or social concerns of these service members. Speaking directly to the command of the Kant Airbase, to all its personnel, I
Mr Prime Minister of the Republic of Iraq, Ladies and gentlemen, friends. I would like to greet the participants and guests of Russian Energy Week. For the sixth time, here in Moscow, this forum has brought together the heads of the leading energy companies and research institutes, politicians, experts from Russia and abroad so they can assess the trends of and prospects for global energy, exchange opinions on the challenges the global fuel and energy sector faces and discuss how to ensure the long-term stability of the planet’s energy markets. This is especially important today when the global economy is transitioning to the multipolar model with several growth centres, and the place, role and importance of each country is defined by how it responds to these deep, irreversible processes and how efficiently it can defend its economic, industrial, technological and energy sovereignty, readjust investment, trade and cooperation ties. The Russian economy is also undergoing this stage of structural transformation. The geography of foreign trade, as well as employment and the situation in the sector are changing. New market prospects for small and medium-sized businesses are emerging. The Russian fuel and energy sector is also seeing core changes. They relate to all areas of the industry, including the production and processing of energy commodities, service and logistics, as well as interaction with our foreign partners. Today, I would like to delve into four key elements of this transformation, which consider external factors but are, in my opinion, of a fundamental nature and are part of our country’s sovereign, long-term strategy. First, our basic priority is to ensure supplies to the national market, to ensure sufficient supply of fuel and energy resources within the country. I would like to emphasise that this not only concerns the current needs of our businesses and citizens. We will be working consistently on the quality development of our market and on expanding its capacity. We have huge potential for this. A positive example in this sense is our gas industry. I would like to remind you that we launched a nationwide gas supply social programme in 2021. Its goal is to connect every house in the villages and cities that have gas mainlines to the gas grid. In the first few years of the programme, we have created the technical infrastructure for connecting over a million households to the gas grid and have already connected 375,000. Last year, we agreed the programme would continue indefinitely. Moreover, we have expanded it to include outpatient clinics, hospitals and schools where the heating system can be converted to gas. During Russian Energy Week held a year ago, I proposed giving targeted assistance to people who wanted their private houses to be connected to the gas grid. The government will subsidise spending to purchase equipment and lay pipes on their land plots for up to 100,000 roubles per household. About 52,000 citizens entitled to benefits have taken advantage of this opportunity, including large families and low-income people, who could connect their houses to the gas grid quickly and relatively cheaply, which made their lives easier and more comfortable. I propose expanding the list of citizens with access to subsidies for purchasing and installing gas equipment by adding to the list participants in the special military operation and their families, people with the most severe disabilities, and families with disabled children. I would like to add that we have launched a number of strategic projects to develop the country’s gas pipeline system. They are aimed at increasing the availability of natural gas for companies, industrial facilities, cities and towns. There is a plan to connect the gas pipeline systems in western and eastern Russia. During the first phase of this project, we will connect the Power of Siberia and Sakhalin – Khabarovsk – Vladivostok gas pipelines, and then we will connect them to the country’s unified gas supply system. Along with building the Power of Siberia-2 pipeline, this will make it possible to supply gas to many regions in Siberia and in the Russian Far East. We regularly discuss the progress on these plans with the Government and with companies, including at meetings on developing Far Eastern cities. The so-called master plans have been drawn up for the development of cities in Yakutia, Buryatia, the Khabarovsk, Primorye and Trans-Baikal territories, the Amur Region and the Jewish Autonomous Region, as well as for Krasnoyarsk. A project has been launched to install an LNG-based public gas supply system in the Kamchatka Territory. The Murmansk Region and Karelia will be connected to an offshoot of the Volkhov – Murmansk – Belokamenka gas pipeline. The pipeline will be laid for an LNG project on the Kola Peninsula. But part of its capacity, namely up to 10 billion cubic metres per year, will be used to supply gas to industrial and social facilities, and residential buildings in Karelia and the Murmansk Region, and to develop environmentally friendly power generation. I would like to note that last year, Russia had record-high energy consumption, and there is reason to believe that it will be broken this year. One does not have to be an expert to know that, if energy consumption grows, it means the economy is growing. In fact, this conclusion has been confirmed by other data as well. I would like to stress that this is a qualitative, integrated indicator that reflects positive trends in the Russian economy and social sphere. The number of consumers is growing; new production facilities and infrastructure facilities are opening, providing new jobs, and this propels demand for electricity. In this regard, we will consistently improve the reliability of energy supply to the regions. Power grids and power lines must operate smoothly and sustainably and allow a reserve for the further development of territories. At the same time, we will pay special attention to improving the energy efficiency of industry, utilities and transport. Let me remind you that we have drawn up plans to upgrade the power grids in the regions where it is most badly needed. I will not list them now, but there are about ten such regions. I would like to remind the Government that all regional programmes to this effect must be funded in full. Federal budget funds have been earmarked to support such programmes. Additionally, stability and affordable prices for electricity, raw materials and fuel are a critical condition for ensuring confident, long-term development of the energy market. As you may be aware, we have run into a surge in gasoline and diesel fuel prices in recent months. To address this issue, the Government has taken a series of measures to bring the situation back to normal. I once again draw the attention of our leading energy companies to the importance of prioritising fuel supplies to our domestic consumers. I urge the Government to act proactively and implement preventive measures before the situation escalates. Maximising added value and advancing the deep processing of oil and gas is the second strategic and systemic objective of the Russian fuel and energy sector. We have made substantial progress in this area. Ambitious oil and gas-to-chemicals projects, including projects with state participation and state support, are in the planning and implementation stages. A petrochemical plant has been launched in Tobolsk. The Amur Gas Processing Plant is expanding its capacity. The LNG production and gas processing complex in Ust-Luga and the Amur Gas Chemical Complex are both under construction. It is crucial to continue to support such projects and further bolster the potential of economic sectors such as large-tonnage polymers, medium- and low-tonnage chemistry, and oil refining where considerable modernisation efforts are underway. Yesterday, my colleague and I discussed this issue; it is simply impossible not to. Iraq is a country in the Middle East, and the Palestinian problem touches the heart of every person in this region, and I think, every Muslim’s heart. This is where life has led; these are obvious things. And people view all this – not only what is taking place now but what has occurred for decades – as a manifestation of the injustice that has ramped up dramatically. Why? Because initially, when a decision was adopted on creating the state of Israel, a parallel decision was made on creating a second state. So initially, I would like to add that Russia’s position, which you have mentioned and I have just outlined, took shape over decades. It has not emerged today or in connection with these tragic events, and both Israel and our friends in Palestine are well aware of this position. We have always advocated the implementation of the UN Security Council resolutions, bearing in mind primarily the creation of an independent and sovereign Palestinian state. This is the root of all problems. And, naturally, the settlement activities are what has accompanied and exacerbated this problem in recent years. Incidentally, this does not mean that Israel’s position is that everything should be done as it is being done now. The US position, as I said, is to address only issues of a material nature, whereas Russia’s First of all, this could have an impact on logistics, and everything else connected with this, like insurance and freight. Of course, this will not affect production, but it could affect all the other components that influence the situation on the global energy markets. This is obvious. In my opinion, if the conflict continues to grow – perish the thought – such an influence will become unavoidable. I do not understand why the United States is sending aircraft carriers to the Mediterranean. It has sent one group and has announced the intention of sending another one. I do not see any sense in it. What are they planning to bomb there? Lebanon? What are they planning to do there? Or are they doing this for intimidation? But there are people there who are no longer afraid of anything. The problem should not be addressed in this way. Instead, we should look for compromise solutions. This is what we should do. These actions are certainly whipping up tension. If the conflict spreads beyond the Palestinian territories, as you have said, it will affect the situation. Iran has been accused of all mortal sins, as usual, without any substantiation. There is no proof of this. Time will tell. I hope common sense will prevail. Amro Abdelhamid : Mr Prime Minister , you have said that the Arab street is seething with anger at what is happening now. Could this hatred lead to acts of violence, like attacks at the facilities of the United States or other Western countries that support Israel? Do you think something like this is possible in Iraq? Muhammed Shia Al-Sudani : When I said that discontent is growing on the Arab street, I meant that there will be increasing pressure on Arab governments to take a clear stand. The spread of the crisis and conflict throughout the region is definitely a destabilising factor. The Iraqi government is trying to promote de-escalation. It does not matter whether we work with friendly or unfriendly countries. It is important for us to respond to arising challenges. As for the question you addressed to Mr President, I would like to say that there is a risk that energy supplies will be stopped. The region that supplies resources to energy markets is very sensitive and very important. The tasks of OPEC and OPEC Plus include responding to political challenges to maintain market stability. There must be no playing with security and stability in the Middle East, because otherwise, it would be very difficult to resume control of the situation and deal with its influence on the energy market. Amro Abdelhamid : Thank you very much, Mr Prime Minister. From the conflict in the Middle East and escalation there to the Ukraine crisis and latest developments in view of their impact on energy issues. how has the special military operation, which was launched at your instruction in February 2022, affected Russia’s energy strategy? I talked about this indirectly in my remarks but I can repeat or specify certain things. Some of our former partners, in the United States and Europe, mainly in Europe, started to turn down our energy sources and introduce restrictions with respect to price, volumes, insurance and freight charges. They have imposed many different restrictions. I told you about the outcome. Firstly, yes, our energy industry could have shown better results over the past 18 months but the outcome is still good. This is the first point. Secondly, we fulfil all our obligations, inside the country and to our partners who wish to work with us. Those who have imposed these restrictions are facing difficulties they cannot overcome so far. So, they no longer buy our natural gas. As a result, the prices have skyrocketed, to say nothing about the prices that were obviously speculative, 2,000 euros per 1,000 cubic metres. Right now, the price is around 350–400 euros. Well, it is not important, this is the approximate rate that goes back and forth. It is, however, high for the European market. The Nord Stream pipelines were blown up – but nobody investigates the incident. I am surprised about the position of many European countries. It was obviously an act of international terrorism and, from all appearances, committed at a state level. Because no random group of people who somehow decided to blow up gas pipelines would have been able to commit such an act without state support. It would have been impossible. You need technology and people trained to do this sort of thing. So, nobody investigates the incident. Our repeated offers to take part in the investigation have been ignored. As a result, as I have noted in my address and said at the Valdai forum recently, all the leading industrialised countries in Europe, that is, their industries and GDP are in the red. Germany’s real GDP is minus 0.1 percent, as far as I know, and the Netherlands and all the other leading industrialised countries in Europe are in the red as well. Living standards have declined by 1.2 percent, and the people’s real disposable incomes have decreased too. We have reported growth of 4.4 percent and 5.3 percent in the second quarter. No information regarding this is available yet in Euro zone. It might be slightly better than the 1.2 percent slump, but that is an indicator of the situation in the economy, anyway. They have stopped buying our gas. Why? Look, we have two pipeline systems running across Ukraine. One of them is operating; we are using it to transport gas to Europe. But Ukraine has shut down the other pipeline. It receives money from Europe, between $4 and $5 billion every month, some of it from the United States, but the bulk comes from Europe. Europe could order Kiev to resume gas transportation because Europe needs gas for its industries. But they have not done this. Why can gas be transported to Europe via one pipeline but not via the other? I do not understand this. Or take Poland, which has shut down the Yamal-Europe pipeline, a major high-capacity route. They did it on their own account. Germany could have reminded Poland that it is the largest donor of European funds. Poland is, or has been until recently, the largest recipient of money from these funds. Overall, Russian companies have invested over $10 billion in Iraq’s economy. They have been successfully operating there for a long time; Lukoil since the 1990s. Indeed, the Prime Minister pointed out some current challenges related to settlements and other technical matters. However, all of them are solvable. All that can be resolved, and the key thing our companies do in the countries of the region, including Iraq, is conclude mutually beneficial contracts. That is why the Prime Minister and his colleagues in the Government certainly support these joint efforts as they are focused on national interests. Unlike those who, despite possessing a kind of outward respectability, do not have full sovereignty. By the way, you mentioned again our special military operation. I spoke at the Valdai International Discussion Club recently, but this is a different audience, the people here are business people, they are engaged in concrete actions, not verbiage. So what do I want to say? I am just going to repeat for this audience. The war started in Ukraine in 2014, when after the coup d’état supported by the United States and Europe , the new Kiev regime started fighting in the south-east of Ukraine. For eight years they fought, killed women, children, old people, and nobody paid attention to it. Everyone started paying attention only when we took actions to stop this war. That is what this is about. And this is a very significant addition to what I have been saying. Yes and no, in a way. Why? Because after all, following the collapse of the Soviet Union, we had been taking a number of active steps over a long period of time, over decades, aimed at improving the situation in the historical perspective, at creating a security system in Europe that would not disadvantage anyone, that would be equal for all – an equal security system. I repeatedly said that, and there were all sorts of ideas in Western Europe as well to create something new, a new security system that would embrace the United States, Canada, the Central European states, and Russia. But unfortunately, they did not take this path, they took a This answer deserves applause. Amro Abdelhamid : Let us go from politics back to the economy. Let’s talk about gas. Mr President, I listened to what you said about Germany at the Valdai Forum. You said that Russia was ready to resume gas delivery to Germany via the one Nord Stream pipeline that was not damaged in the act of sabotage. Have you received any signals regarding this from Germany? No. I would like to point out that we are supplying gas to Germany via Ukraine. It is transported to the Baumgarten hub in Austria from where it is sent to customers throughout Europe. I believe some of it reaches Germany as well. But Nord Stream 2 goes directly to Germany. One of the pipes has not been damaged and has the capacity of 27.5 billion cubic metres a year. We only need to press the button, but we need a decision from the German Government to do this. But they prefer to pay 30 percent more for other gas rather than use our energy resources. It is their choice. They pay 30 percent more for gas they receive from the United States, which is happy about this. As I said, some enterprises are moving to the United States. You know, I would like to be civil, but I have to say that this economic behaviour is unwise, as if they are deliberately harming the German economy. I do not understand why they are doing this. Why can we deliver gas to Germany via Ukraine but not via Nord Stream 2? Why do they not tell Poland to reopen the Yamal-Europe gas pipeline? This is what I do not understand. I would understand if they decided to shut down all routes and not to buy anything at all. Well and good, we would survive. But why can one route be used while the other cannot? I do not understand it, and I think nobody does. I believe that people in Germany do not understand very many decisions adopted in the German economy either. The volumes are huge. Why push it so far? As I said, why can one supply route be used while the other cannot? This is nonsense. Once again, when I talk with my colleagues in Germany, where I maintain contacts to this day, they shrug their shoulders. The reasoning of the Government is a mystery. The only thing I can say is that when our gas enters the territory of Ukraine – this is how the network was designed back in the Soviet era – it is spread through the pipelines in Ukraine. It is only on paper that all of it is delivered to Western consumers via Ukraine. They fill out the paperwork in this way, and then a certain amount of gas is dispatched from the western border of Ukraine, from Ukraine’s storage facilities and its own production sites. Yet it is essentially our gas. Ukraine is very likely using part of our gas too because it would have been unable to operate without the volumes of gas we supply. This also concerns reverse gas flows and other methods. Why are some countries allowed to do this, when Germany is not? There is no reasonable explanation. So, you should ask them. They have the economics minister, who is an “expert” on children’s literature, and there are also “experts” in the area of international relations. There are people you should talk with there. Amro Abdelhamid : You ask questions. Perhaps you have an explanation for this sort of behaviour? Especially since the pipeline via Ukraine continues to operate while the other pipelines are turned off. Honestly, I am not making this up. It is just irrational behaviour, as if they were put in their positions on purpose, to harm the German economy. Why are they doing this? One thing is allowed and another is not. Mr Miller, can you explain this? Mr Miller cannot explain it either. His job has been to supply gas. Now Gazprom supplies less and earns less. I think they will continue to buy it. They are not signing any contracts with us, which means they will have to buy under the contracts they have. Speaking of which, supplies from the Middle East have increased but the biggest supplier is the United States. I do not remember exactly, I think the supplies have increased by about 40 percent. Mr Novak, do you remember? See, the US supplies have doubled. Their gas is 30 percent more expensive than ours. No, I don’t agree with you. If morality were somehow involved, I think that, most likely, we need to consult with our colleagues, but here decisions are made practically by consensus, we always come to an agreement. Even if there are differences in positions, we always look for consensus. And in this sense, the Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia plays a very important role; he works very actively and very professionally in this regard. But today the situation seems to be such that we will, of course, continue cooperation. However, I would like to note that this does not only mean reducing oil production , but also cooperating in the sphere of technology, personnel training, equipment and other things. This is essential, and this is what unites us. Will we have to do something together to stabilise markets next year? I cannot rule that out. Most likely yes. But we will have to look at how the global economy develops and what the needs will be. Now the needs and production, thanks to our solutions, are balanced. If these decisions had not been made, the price would most likely have fallen below US$50 per barrel, and this would have resulted in a lack of resources for investment. Before the COVID, and later during the pandemic, the amount of investment decreased by more than half compared to the previous period. This is the reason behind all the problems in global energy. People for whom I have great respect, the so-called Greens, their party, all over the world, they are doing a noble thing as they seek to preserve the climate and the viability of Earth and avoid doing harm and the like. It is the right thing to do; however, everything should be done gradually step by step. Look what happened in some European countries which shut down their nuclear power plants and refused to use coal and our gas supplies. What has it led to? The share of coal in their energy sector has increased manyfold – twice the share we have in Russia. This is the result of an unbalanced and rash policy. As a matter of fact, this cannot be called a policy, rather this is work in the field of domestic policy in order to frighten people with partly real and partly invented problems, and promise them to resolve all of these problems, and then based, essentially, on lies, they make their way into the higher echelons of power. What next? Whatever they say, people still feel what it is all about. Look now at the outcome of elections in the states in the Federal Republic of Germany. The Greens have lost the elections because people see what is happening and see the results of their policy, and hence the political implications. But we need to ensure that earnings in the sector can guarantee the necessary level of investment to be made without delay in the production of oil, natural gas and other mineral resources. Incidentally, the Russian Federation’s energy sector has the greenest structure of all. Nuclear power engineering accounts for about 20 percent and the figure for hydropower engineering is about the same or slightly lower – 19.7 percent. The renewable resources account for a small amount but still it seems to be about 0.8 percent or maybe one. No, it is already two percent, as the Deputy Prime Minister has just told me. As for natural gas, the most environmentally-friendly fuel among hydrocarbons, it accounts for 43 percent. Our energy sector has one of the greenest structures in the world. However, we will continue to move further and increase the share of nuclear energy from 20 percent to 25 percent in the next few years and we will follow this way. Everything must be done in stages and be well considered, and then we will all succeed, including as we move towards green energy. We have plans in place of how to achieve zero emissions and we will certainly move along this path. Muhammed Shia Al-Sudani : Daily oil consumption in 2022 was 99.9 million barrels, in 2023 it topped 101 million barrels and next year it is expected to exceed 104 million barrels. This is given irregular funding by economic organisations investing in gas and oil projects. This situation will soon send fuel prices higher. Hopefully, these projects will continue to be funded and receive investment to maintain the fuel supplies level and price stability. You know, First of all, this has to do with creating an e-commerce platform for selling gas on the European continent. Consequently, everyone, including our Turkish friends and partners, Russia and all those wishing to purchase our resources on the European continent, are interested in this. There are such customers, and we currently deliver gas there via Turkiye. We have two operational routes, namely, the Turk-Stream and the Blue Stream. They are functioning effectively and are filled to capacity. In principle, we are thinking of expanding them. I repeat, it is necessary to establish an online e-commerce platform during the first stage. We do not see any major problems in establishing this platform. Turkiye and Russia are interested in this. We have spoken with Azerbaijan, and they are also interested. We hope that other concerned countries could join in after we organise this work, and I hope that this will take place. Amro Abdelhamid : Mr Prime Minister, speaking of the gas issue, Iraq has been having trouble importing Iranian gas over the past few years, for obvious reasons, specifically, US sanctions against Iran. We perceive a challenge in this context, and it has to do with energy deliveries to Iraq. You get 40 percent of your gas from Iran. Do you have any plan for diversifying gas supply sources, apart from Iran? Muhammad Shia Al-Sudani : Of course, I would like to note that the Islamic Republic of Iran aims to retain gas and electricity supplies to Iraq. As of late, although payments worth 11 billion euros have not been received, we faced a real problem and had trouble maintaining electricity supply levels for our citizens, especially in summer when it is very hot. This is why we started working to expedite associated petroleum gas projects. As I said, we did not develop the associated petroleum gas sector very actively in the past few years, when we expanded oil production. Today, we produce 4.6 million barrels daily. This is why we contacted Iran, which has substantial reserves. Of course, we are also interested in expanding natural gas supplies. Consequently, the government’s plan is to gradually sign agreements with a number of companies, with Total, to work with UAE and Chinese companies. This will facilitate the required gas supply volumes in the next three to five years, so that we will not have to import gas in the future. Regarding plans for developing gas deposits, our Ministry of Oil is preparing these processes. We have some promising oilfields with about 10–12 sections that can contribute to gas production, and we can meet the demand of power plants. In the future, Iraq may become a major player on the gas market. Well, essentially, we have already found them. The volumes are still smaller than what we used to supply to the European continent, but they will grow as these economies grow. I do not see a problem here. For now, European countries simply cannot fully cope without our gas and have no way of replacing it. They could, I suppose, but it is difficult and the available volumes are not sufficient. We all talk about buying American gas. But their production volumes are also limited, and it is not that easy to quickly boost production. This is a long-cycle production process. As concerns Uzbekistan and Kazakhstan, we are making use of an old Soviet gas pipeline, Central Asia – Centre. The gas pipeline used to transport approximately 80 billion cubic metres to eight Soviet republics. But it has never been used in the reverse mode, to transport gas to these republics from Russia. Therefore, a certain amount of work had to be done. Gazprom took about three months, and our colleagues and friends in Uzbekistan and Kazakhstan restored this route to launch it in the reverse mode. While currently being small, these volumes are significant for these republics. As their economies grow, they will need more gas, so we are already thinking about expanding supplies and how to achieve that, be it by building new routes or fixing up existing ones. Speaking about Iran, our Iranian partners have also been discussing with us the possibility of supplying Russian gas to the Iranian market. There are many options, and they all are feasible. You know, you have touched upon a very sensitive area. We had serious concerns about whether we would be able to meet the oil and gas equipment-related challenge. Of course, we have not addressed every challenge yet and have not met all our needs, some know-how is still lacking, but the situation is changing – and it is changing in our favour quite quickly. I was just talking about a plant built by NOVATEK in Murmansk. It is a plant that manufactures plants, manufactures gas liquefaction platforms. Almost all the equipment there is made in Russia. There are things in exploration, in gas production, in oil production where we still find it difficult to reach the level of our partners, especially the United States and Europe. But we find alternative solutions in other countries and acquire competences ourselves. This work is ongoing and it’s moving fairly fast. I was recently in the Far Eastern Federal District, where I visited two of our major enterprises. One works in the gas sector and the other in natural gas conversion, and the technological equipment was supplied by a German company – I will share its name with you, it is not a secret, the company’s name is Linde. It is a clear technological leader in this field. I asked the head of the company – the company’s name is Sibur, it is not a secret, either – “How are you doing?” He said that since they refused to provide us with equipment, we had to defer the launch of the facility to a later date, but there is no doubt that we will launch it. I share the opinion of my colleague, the Prime Minister. We also believe that the more routes, the better, as they will make it easier for economic participants to choose the best one. North-South is a very good solution, and many of our partners are interested in it. Azerbaijan's interest is still there; part of the route goes through its territory. It goes on one side of the Caspian Sea and on the other side of the Caspian Sea. Kazakhstan and Turkmenistan are there, with access to Iran as well – one side of the Caspian to Iran, and then on the other side to the Persian Gulf. What you just asked the Prime Minister, what he was talking about, is not a problem for us at all; the cargo flow will only increase. If we continue to develop the Northern Sea Route, and we will, all of this fits together. If there is an exit to the Arab Emirates, well that is good, to Turkiye – we are all for it. We are aware of all these routes, they are all being discussed, we know all about it and we are all for it. There are no easy tasks today and in general, but everything is achievable. We have agreements with all the participants in this process, and documents with Iran and Azerbaijan are in place. I will be meeting with President Aliyev as part of the CIS summit in Kyrgyzstan and we will definitely discuss this matter. Azerbaijan has many current issues to deal with, but no one is backing out of this project. Interest is also expressed from the other side of the Caspian Sea, namely, Turkmenistan and Kazakhstan. So, when practical work begins… You know, we are now creating a consortium led by, I think, VTB, the Vneshtorgbank of Russia. The preparatory work is nearing completion. I hope actual work will begin very soon. This above all has to do with traditions. These are very good traditions when we speak about nuclear energy. And we focused on safety a great deal after the Fukushima accident. Essentially, nuclear power plants designed in Russia are the safest in the world, because our experts have invented a safety system that can be upgraded endlessly, on an increasingly large level, reducing risks to zero. It depends only on funding and how many safety elements are installed and used. It is a fact recognised by international experts, including the IAEA. The IAEA is monitoring everything, all aspects of the Russian nuclear sector’s operation. What is the difference between what we are doing and what other countries or rivals, such as US companies or Japan’s Toshiba, are doing? As a rule, we do not just build a power plant, making the host country dependent on us as the supplier of fuel and professionals, but we also create the nuclear sector. This is our main competitive advantage. We create a nuclear sector in the host country. We start with training professionals, who eventually become self-sufficient high-end professionals of world class. This is what we are doing in Egypt, Turkiye and Bangladesh. All the professionals there receive training in our country and some of them have already started working. This is the first point. Second, we assign a large part of work to local companies, first of all, at the initial stage, the general construction work, which is done at a high level. Also, we are fully financing construction in Turkiye, just as in Egypt, More? The construction stage costs more than 20 percent – 25 percent. All of these funds are invested in the market of the host country, in this case Egypt. Local companies are involved, people get jobs and receive wages. It is the second point. Third, we offer full-cycle projects, that is, we not only build but also provide technology, train personnel, supply nuclear fuel and remove spent nuclear fuel. Do you see what I mean? Moreover, we also create engineering centres and research institutions and work with our partner on the design of next-generation fast neutron power plants. Taken together, this is our competitiveness. And last but not least, we offer competitive pricing. Our competitive prices for the entire package of our services, including construction and research, ensure this result. Rosatom builds 80 percent of nuclear power plants around the world. Certainly. First of all, we always cooperate in full accordance with the IAEA rules. The rest are commercial aspects of the deal. We need to discuss commercial terms with our potential partners, such as the cost of future electric energy, sales markets, investment on our side, investment on the partner’s side, whether the partner is ready to invest, the amount of money to be spent in the local market, the scope of Russia’s supplied equipment, whether it is necessary to engage professionals from third countries. All these are technical issues. We are not familiar with Saudi Arabia-United States negotiations. It is Saudi Arabia’s sovereign decision. We support the UAE, and we believe that this is a highly noble aspect of our UAE friends’ activities. Yes, of course, they are a major hydrocarbons producer. Is it bad if an oil-producing country also addresses the green agenda? I do not even understand who can hamper this process. If this is so, it is unclear why they would be doing this at all. We will certainly support all of this, and we will, undoubtedly, take part, even at a high level. In turn, Russia has its own green conversion plan, we have assumed the relevant obligations, we fulfil everything, and we will continue to do this in the future. It goes without saying, but that is not the main point. Why do many countries share Russia’s views? Because Russia is actively working towards a fairer multipolar world order. Why do they support Russia? Because Russia is at the forefront. And why do they refuse to support something else? Because nobody, for example, in Africa, has forgotten the colonial era. I said recently that only a short time ago, in 1957, people from Africa, including children, were put up for display in cages in Europe, as far as I remember, in Belgium. It was an ugly sight. Can you forget this? Nobody will forget it. As for practical politics, many elements of the colonial era, or at least colonial thinking, are still with us, and that is the problem. People no longer want to tolerate this; they want to change this situation. Russia is fighting to change that world order, to create a fairer world order, which is why it is supported. Nobody is fighting the West; people simply want international relations to be more equitable. This is the first point. Second, based on this logic, the overwhelming majority of participants in international dialogue act in their own national interests, try to coordinate these interests with other countries and categorically reject any forms of pressure. Regrettably, the so-called collective West… Everything they are doing, like the sanctions, is a form of pressure. It is. Thank you. I would like to thank our moderator for his energetic and interesting presentation of all the issues we discussed today. Thank you very much.
Friends, I am delighted to welcome everyone to the Tenth Russia-Kyrgyzstan Interregional Conference. This year, it is dedicated mainly to the development of industrial cooperation, and so it is logical that you are meeting in Jalal-Abad, the industrial centre of Kyrgyzstan. As usual, your conference is attended by the heads of regions, members of parliament, the heads of ministries and agencies, and representatives from the business, expert and public communities of our two countries; that is, by those who deal with the practical aspects of the range of friendly Russia-Kyrgyzstan relations every day, including the trade and economic components. It is gratifying that our region-to-region cooperation involves the overwhelming majority of the constituent entities of the Russian Federation and all seven regions of Kyrgyzstan. At the same time, Moscow, St Petersburg, Tatarstan, Bashkortostan, as well as the Orenburg and Chelyabinsk regions are especially active on the Russian side. It is important that our regions’ activities are based on assistance from the governments of Russia and Kyrgyzstan. The Russian Export Centre is assisting the strengthening of interregional trade. It is largely thanks to this that trade between our regions is growing sustainably and becoming more diversified. Overall, trade between Russia and Kyrgyzstan increased by 37 percent to $3.4 billion in 2022 and by another 17.4 percent in the first half of 2023 compared to the same period last year. The Federal Corporation for the Development of Small and Medium Enterprises is making a substantial contribution to interregional cooperation and to the development of direct ties between Russian and Kyrgyz businesses. The Russian-Kyrgyz Development Fund is working effectively and has financed over 3,000 joint projects with a total value of $520 million in real economy sectors such as mining, manufacturing, energy, transport and logistics. I think we can all agree that the growth of interregional trade and industrial interaction was largely facilitated by Kyrgyzstan’s joining the Eurasian Economic Union eight years ago. Eurasian integration brings incontestable benefits to all participating states, and, of course, to Kyrgyzstan. Thus, over the past eight years, the republic’s GDP and its industrial production increased by 2.3 times. Exports have doubled. The Eurasian Development Bank, which invests in major regional infrastructure projects such as the reconstruction of the Toktogul Dam and the Bishkek-Osh Highway, is actively attracting investment resources to the country. The Eurasian Fund for Stabilisation and Development is funding the technological renovation of the Kambar-Ata-2 Hydroelectric Power Plant, the water utilisation system in the Osh region. In addition to the economy, interregional cooperation also covers the cultural sphere. The Russian side is helping Kyrgyz regions improve their system of secondary education. Overall, Russia plans to build nine schools in all seven regions and the two largest cities in Kyrgyzstan in the next few years. They will accommodate over 11,000 students. It is worth mentioning that on September 1, the President of Kyrgyzstan and I launched the construction of the first three Russian-language schools in Bishkek, Batken and Karakol. Branches of Russian universities are also being opened in Kyrgyz regions. In Osh, a branch of Lomonosov Moscow State University has been opened. Another branch of the university will open soon in Karakol. As part of the Russian Teacher Abroad project, some 120 teachers from Russia were sent to work in Kyrgyz schools. I am sure that these issues will be discussed during the 3 rd Forum of Rectors of Russia and Kyrgyzstan to be held in Osh soon. In conclusion, I would like to note again that regions play a central role in the strategic partnership and alliance between Russia and Kyrgyzstan. We will continue to encourage the regions of our countries to cooperate with each other, and look for new areas of interaction. Naturally, we will support all of your promising initiatives. I am confident that President Sadyr Japarov Japarov Sadyr President of the Kyrgyz Republic and the entire leadership of Kyrgyzstan share this attitude. I want to wish everyone at the conference constructive work and success. Thank you for your attention.
President Tokayev, President Mirziyoyev, friends, I would like to once again extend my heartfelt welcome to all the participants in today’s launch of Russian gas supplies to Uzbekistan via Kazakhstan, and to Kazakhstan. This is an enormous trilateral energy project, and it is being implemented using the Central Asia-Centre gas pipeline system, built in the 1960s. Back then it was the first transcontinental Eurasian gas pipeline which delivered gas from Uzbekistan simultaneously to eight union republics, carrying around 80 billion cubic metres of gas per year. Now this pipeline will operate in reverse mode and will reliably meet the needs of the dynamically growing economy of Uzbekistan and, to some extent, Kazakhstan, which is developing at a fast pace and also needs additional energy resources. I would like to remind you that our Uzbekistani friends asked us at the end of last year to launch gas supplies. We promptly responded to their request, issued corresponding instructions to Gazprom, which worked out all the necessary technical details with our partners from Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan. The contract on the export of Russian gas to Uzbekistan and the agreement on its transportation via Kazakhstan were signed during the St Petersburg International Economic Forum in June. Pursuant to these documents, Russia will supply 2.8 billion cubic metres of gas to consumers in Uzbekistan within the next two years. I would like to emphasise that the three countries’ specialists faced a large- Thank you very much. Mr Miller, please. Congratulations to everyone! Once again thank you for your work. We are sure that it will continue. We agreed with our colleagues that we will discuss the future prospects now. They are serious and substantial – in the energy sector in general, not only in terms of gas supplies. We are well aware of the demands. The economies of Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan under the leadership of President Tokayev and President Mirziyoyev are growing at a fast pace, and the countries need energy. We have plans and opportunities, as you have just reported and showed us. We have very well-trained professionals – in Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan and Russia. We will discuss all of these issues with our colleagues today and I am confident that we will find solutions to satisfy the growing needs of all our countries. Thank you very much once again. Geography Kazakhstan Uzbekistan Topics Energy Foreign policy Persons Miller Alexei Mirziyoyev Shavkat Tokayev Kassym-
Comrade President, friends, Allow me once again to cordially welcome our distinguished guests, Comrade Kim Jong-un and all our Korean colleagues. I remember well when, during our talks in Vladivostok in 2019, we exchanged views on the development of our relations and on the international agenda at that time. Your current visit is taking place in an atmosphere of true camaraderie, friendship and positivity. We have an extensive agenda and a programme that includes visits not only to the Vostochny Cosmodrome, but also to other major high-tech clusters, industrial facilities and innovation centres in the Russian Far East. See also Russia-North Korea talks September 13, 2023 This year, Russia and North Korea will mark a significant anniversary – 75 years of diplomatic relations. The Soviet Union was the first to recognise the newly established Democratic People's Republic of Korea. Our relationship dates back to Korea's struggle for freedom in 1945, when Soviet and Korean soldiers, shoulder to shoulder, smashed the Japanese militarists. Today, we strive to further strengthen the bonds of companionship and neighbourly relations, and work for peace, stability and prosperity in the region we share. Comrade Kim Jong-un, you are firmly and confidently following the course laid down by outstanding statesmen such as the founder of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Kim Il-sung, and his successor, Comrade Kim Jong Il. They were our genuine and true friends and consistently supported building the closest relations and ties between our countries. A Korean proverb says, “good clothes are new clothes, but a good friend is an old friend.” Russian people say, “an old friend is better than two new ones.” These popular sayings are fully applicable to modern relations between our countries. See also Visit to Vostochny Cosmodrome September 13, 2023 I would like to propose a toast to the further strengthening of friendship and cooperation between our countries, between the Russian Federation and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, to the success and prosperity of our nations, to the health of Comrade Chairman and all those present. Chairman of State Affairs of the DPRK Kim Jong-un Kim Jong-un Chairman of State Affairs of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea : I am delighted to be able to visit Russia after four years and five months , to meet with President Putin and to be in this remarkable place filled with the feeling of sincere comradely friendship. Comrade Putin, first of all, I would like to express our sincere gratitude for inviting us despite your busy schedule, filled with the affairs of state, and for giving us such a hospitable welcome. I would also like to express our gratitude to officials from the federal centre and Far Eastern regions who have done a great deal to make our visit to Russia a success. I would like to use this occasion to convey a combat tribute and warm fraternal greetings from the Korean people to the Russian people, who have risen to fulfil the historical mission of building a strong Russia and reliably protecting the country’s strategic interests. Comrades, this visit is taking place at a time when a fierce competition between progress and reaction, between justice and injustice is gaining momentum on the international stage, and when the rise of the multipolar world is proceeding thanks to the common will and combined strength of independent forces. Comrade Putin and I have just had an in-depth discussion on the military-political situation on the Korean Peninsula and in Europe. We have come to a satisfactory consensus regarding the further strengthening of our strategic and tactical cooperation, mutual support and solidarity in the battle for our sovereign right to security and to create guarantees for a lasting peace in the region and the world. We are confident that the Russian army and people will inevitably attain victory in the sacred struggle to punish the evil crowd, which claims the right to hegemony based on the illusion of expansionism, a struggle to create the stability needed for development. The task of expanding and building up Russian-North Korean relations not only fully meets the interests of our two nations but is also a relevant part of the current period of striving for independence. I will work together with the President of Russia to develop stable and forward-looking Russian-North Korean relations for decades to come, using them to stimulate the development of strong states in our countries and to ensure genuine international justice. As soon as I stepped on Russian soil, I got a sense of your fighting spirit and exuberant activity, and I have become a direct witness to the remarkable achievements of the Russian people in the creation of a powerful modern Russia under the wise guidance of Comrade Putin. I have no doubt that the heroic Russian army and people, the glorious successors of the traditions of victory,
Good afternoon, friends, Ms Yathotou, I am delighted to welcome our guest, and I ask the participants to do so as well. Our moderator has now greeted the audience by saying “good afternoon, good morning, good evening” – and indeed, when you arrive in the Far East, everything gets confusing and time-disorienting here. We have many priorities, but the Far East is one of the top priorities. Firstly, we launched that project 10 years ago. You asked me about it, and I replied that we started doing this long before the events that took place in the past few years, in 2014, and we did it because we saw the global economic development trends. We saw the rise of new centres of influence and economic development. I believe I do not need to name these countries, which everyone knows about. We saw what was changing and how, and we can see today that these trends have not slowed down but are gathering momentum. But what happened after 2014, after the Western countries supported a You know, if you are interested and probably many businesspeople are interested, there is a I will now talk about stepping on a rake. Nevertheless, we can see that logistics chains and goods deliveries have now virtually been restored, and everything has been normalised. We can see that this is also linked with the national currency exchange rate, including the restrained return of foreign currency revenues, to put it mildly, and a desire to deposit something abroad once again … We can see this, and we understand everything. We need to reach some agreement with the business community, and they should understand and proceed from the premise that it is more reliable to operate here. Consequently, they should not step on one and the same rake. I am confident that those whom I am addressing understand me. Did he say this? He is talking like a former State Planning Committee official. We should be equal partners. He knows that I am always joking this way. It’s a joke. We are hearing this, and they are talking about this all the time. Yes, we have major companies, especially in the energy sector; however, private companies are developing rapidly, and we support them, including here in the Far East. Look, we provide state-backed infrastructure investment for all investment in the Far East. In the past three years or so, we have invested an estimated 15 billion in business support infrastructure, I do not remember the exact figure. Additionally, we have invested 8.5 billion since early 2023 alone. As far as I know, we will be investing an additional 33 billion in the next three years. This also concerns many other areas. We are incentivising the work of our companies and creating privileges for them, especially here, in the Far Eastern region. Let us stay here, on this territory. I mentioned the priority development areas earlier. They enjoy many benefits related to paying social security contributions, profit tax, or property tax. If you take the Kuril Islands, they have twice as many benefits as the priority development areas. So, cooperation between the state and business brings good results. We will continue to do this. Do you know what else is critically important? I think it is important that a very good dialogue has developed between the Government and the business community over the past decade, or maybe even a couple of decades. The Government almost never makes any economic decisions without holding prior consultations with business associations. We always strive to take into account the opinions of our business partners, as well as the trade unions. That is why I said that. By the way, the number 25 billion just came to my mind. This is how much we spent on infrastructure in recent years. We spent 8.5 billion in the first six months of this year, and 33 more billion has been set aside. That is how we are doing it, and we will keep doing it. We realise that investing in infrastructure should be our way of supporting businesses. So, we are doing this and will keep doing it in the future. Yes, this is, of course, a question that needs a thorough researcher such as the Central Bank or the Government, that is, the financial authorities. Overall, I do not think there are any issues or difficulties that cannot be overcome. This is connected with many factors, including with whether our major exporters must or must not repatriate part of their foreign currency proceeds. It is connected with the fact that during the first phase, which you mentioned, when the dollar was 60 rubles, the logistics chains had yet to be established for imports. Now, imports are coming to our market in greater volumes, which means that foreign currency is in greater demand. There are other factors, but they are manageable. We see and understand them, and the Central Bank sees them as well. Of course, the Central Bank had to raise the key interest rate to 12 percent. Among other things, it had to do it because inflation had increased a little bit. Where does it stand now? Is it 5.4 percent, or 5.2 percent? I do not remember the exact number, but it is somewhere around 5.2 percent in annual terms. So, the Central Bank could not fail to respond to these developments. I think that its decision was correct, and timely too. This will mean there are fewer opportunities to take out loans, it will constrain the economy and inhibit its development to a certain extent. However, this factor has a major bearing on mitigating inflationary risks. Everything must come at the right moment. That is to say that we remain in control of the situation, and I will not go into too much detail because this is quite a delicate topic. But overall, we have all it takes to mitigate these risks. What are they doing? They are just trying to scare people by proposing that they cooperate on peaceful terms and undertake specific actions or else, they say, we will impose restrictions and force you to repatriate your revenue, etc. However, no one will make any sudden moves in this regard. I have already said that the key interest rate does affect funding costs, of course, and the rates private banks charge, which in turn constrains lending and stifles economic growth. Overall, we see that lending has been quite active. This is my first point. Second, we see that consumer lending has been growing even faster. In this sector, we also have the tools to mitigate these risks. I will not elaborate on this too much either, so go ahead and talk to Nabiullina, she will tell you. Of course, we need to influence things, but if we miss a situation that will lead to uncontrollable inflation growth, it will be ultimately even worse for the economy – because it is nearly impossible to make business plans amidst high inflation. There are no good or very good decisions here; there are only difficult decisions, and they need to be adopted promptly. So far, both the Central Bank and the Government have done so, and rather effectively. Sorry to interrupt you, I just wanted to add a few words. With growing loan costs, we have created a whole array of tools for major industries and the largest projects that serve the interests of the entire national economy. We have a set of support measures for obtaining loans, with certain preferential terms and an array of tools to support companies that make significant investments, and this is implemented jointly with the government. I have already mentioned industrial platforms and so on. Businesses are aware of them; they will continue on. The thing is, if the costs of loans grow, the Government will probably have to consider increasing funds for these tools. This would mean additional expenses, and there is the other side of the coin, namely the budget’s sustainability and balance, and so on. But all this can be worked out. Yes, there are certain risks, but we see and address them. As for the Far East, we have only 12.5 million people living beyond the Urals; this is not a burden for the entire country and its economy. The government sees no need for that so far. We will celebrate together. We gained many things in the 1990s, meaning above all, emancipation and freedom, but, regrettably, we also lost a great deal, mindlessly wasting and even squandering what we had achieved in the previous decades during the Soviet era. But, as you know, the historical memory of the nations with which we were friendly, cooperated and helped in their development has been preserved. It will not be difficult to restore our relations based on the new principles, because people in these countries want this. I am referring to Laos, where we see many friends, the Asia-Pacific region as a whole and Africa. The Russia-Africa Summit took place recently. Frankly, I was surprised once again by the Africans’ openness and their desire to work with us. I have been thinking about this too. You see, the point is not only that we did something for Africa, helping their people regain freedom and independence and fight against colonialism, although this also important. They remember that, but they also remember other things. What do I see as the main point? The main point is that we have never acted as colonisers anywhere. Our cooperation has always been based on equality or a desire to provide help and support. The countries that are trying to compete with us, including now, had a completely different policy. When people look at what happened in the past during their cooperation with Russia, or the Soviet Union as it was called then, and with other countries, their scales are tilted in favour of Russia, which we must certainly take into account and remember today. If we look at Africa and our cooperation, we see that we helped it. What did the former colonisers do? Back in 1957 – I was recently been shown a photograph – they brought people from Africa in cages to European countries, for example, Belgium. It is an ugly sight, children put up on display in cages. Yes, they brought people in cages and put them up on display, whole families and children in separate cages. How can you forget this? Nobody in Africa will ever forget this. And now they are trying to issue commands and pursue their neo-colonial policy there. They have put all African countries in debt, which runs into trillions of dollars. In other words, they have created a financial credit system for Africa under which the African countries can never pay off their loans. These are not credit arrangements at all; it is a form of contribution, if you see what I mean. We used and still use a completely different approach, which gives us certain advantages when working with our partners, including those with whom we had special relations during the Soviet era and those with whom we are relaunching relations now. Our friends are aware of this as well. Therefore, I do not expect to see any major difficulties, including in regaining our former positions. We have long since recognised that this part of the Soviet Union’s policy was a mistake and did nothing but escalate tensions. A country’s foreign policy must not directly contradict the interests of other nations. That is all there is to it. However, if we are talking about stepping on rakes, this is the case today for the leading Western powers, primarily the United States. It has been pressuring its allies and its so-called partners – after all, it does not have any friends, only interests. This is an extension of a well-known British formula. You just spoke about Young Pioneers who operate in Laos as an organisation. Madam Vice-President recently visited our Okean children’s camp and was glad to note that children from Laos spend their vacation there. They are provided with very good conditions and they have made great friends with their Russian peers. But I also can add that Lao children not only attend the Okean camp, but also study in the Suvorov schools in the Russian Federation. Yes. I So, we are doing all of this at an easy pace and will continue to restore relations with our friends. I think it is for our good; it will help us develop logistics. First, this project has been discussed for a long time, maybe for the past several years. Truth be told, the Americans joined it at the last minute. But I do not really see why they would want to be part of it, except maybe in terms of some business interest. In the meantime, the additional traffic of goods along this corridor will be in fact an addition to our North – South project. We do not see anything here that could harm us in any way. The North – South corridor goes to the Persian Gulf and then to India. If there is another route, I believe it includes Israel, we will be able to reach the Mediterranean through the Black Sea and use this corridor. I do not know, the colleagues who presented this project need to consider it carefully. This is only a memorandum of intent so far. But we should see the economics of this project because cargo is supposed to reach the sea by railroad, and then it will be loaded aboard sea vessels, and then travel to either the Arab Emirates or Saudi Arabia; it will be once again reloaded onto the railroad. And this double transshipment and its impact on the economics should be calculated. The head of our leading company Russian Railways, Mr Oleg Belozyorov, is nodding along, so it seems I hit the nail on the head and it is really about the economics of it, which should be thoroughly calculated. In terms of time, if we go from Northern Europe, from St Petersburg to Mumbai, it will take the same amount of time as via the North – South route. I reiterate, the economics should be considered. I think that our route might be more efficient. Also, interest in using the Suez Canal will not go anywhere. I do not think it would somehow have a negative impact on the Suez Canal. I do not believe that will happen. And, finally, the last thing. Cargo shipment volumes are growing every year, and I think that the more such routes the better. You know, we did not have domestically made cars then, but we do now. It is true that they look more modest than Mercedes or Audi cars, which we bought in vast amounts in the 1990s, but this is not an issue. I think that we should emulate many of our partners, for example, India. They are focused on the manufacture and use of Indian-made vehicles. I think that Prime Minister Modi is doing the right thing in promoting the Make in India programme. He is right. We have automobiles, and we must use them; this is absolutely fine. This will not lead to any infringements of our WTO obligations, absolutely not. It will concern state purchases. We must create a certain chain regarding what cars different classes of officials can drive, so that they will use domestically-made cars. You probably know about the proposals to continue buying these cars. It would be easy to do, because the logistics are streamlined. Yes, I do. But I have also said that I have my doubts about continuing this practice, to put it mildly. The Government and the Presidential Property Management Directorate have coordinated a system showing what class of cars officials can drive. Let them use Russian-made cars. They will start doing this now. The acquisitions will begin shortly. It concerns practical matters. The acquisitions will begin shortly. Franky, I do not know when exactly, but it will begin soon. No, we are working on this project together. Take the Great Wall cars, which started to be assembled somewhere near Moscow. Yes, in Tula. The governor has presented one to me. It is a good car. We are developing our automobile industry. Thankfully, we are doing this increasingly more on our own basis, and we are increasing localisation. And soon Moskvich cars will be produced as well. The Moscow mayor told me recently how that project is progressing. And our Lada cars will be improved. We must do this on our own basis. Of course, when we were assembling cars almost 100 percent from foreign parts, how was it our own production? We will increase localisation levels. Yes, it takes time, but it is the right thing to do from the point of view of developing the automobile industry in our country on our own foundation. We are not going to close down completely, or engage in DIY business. Did we make Aurus? We did. Yes. The price is high because they do not produce enough. Once it goes into serial production, the price will be cut in half. Yes, it takes time, but it will be our own development. It is about acquiring and restoring competencies, it is about taxes and jobs. I do not need to tell you that. Everyone knows what goes into it. But at the same time, we will cooperate with those who want to work with us. Officials certainly must drive domestic cars. Yes, of course, the Government is working on it. I think our petroleum product producers are right. The Government should have reacted to that in a timely manner. Appropriate decisions were made, but not long ago, in order to maintain parity between external market prices and domestic market prices. Then, these mechanisms were cancelled. The Government did not react in a timely manner to changes on the global market due to rising oil prices. However, this is a regulated position, and I just talked to Mr Sechin yesterday, and he has a position of his own. But in general, producers and the Government have agreed among themselves on their actions in the near future. It is very important for us to provide agricultural producers with diesel fuel. Yes. There was a physical shortage of diesel fuel. But now it is physically available, and the issue is about regulating prices. There used to be multiple mechanisms. In 2009, when I was head of the Government, a decision was made – a whole thick folio – regarding our interaction with the fuel and energy companies, and everything was laid out in detail. By the way, this resolution remains in force, but it is not being applied. Other tools are used here, the so-called damper. I have already told you that it is about striking a balance between external and internal prices. But it was halved and lost its prior effectiveness. The tools are known, and the agreements are in place. I hope this will make a difference in the actual state of affairs. First of all, Russia has no slave system – if he wanted to go on to work in business, we cannot force him to stay. Even though he was indeed the best fit for the job; he had been a good Minister of Finance, too. The Accounts Chamber is working and it is quite effective. It has carried out about 1,000 audits. I am not sure about the figure, but I think they revealed 1.6 trillion rubles worth of violations. The Accounts Chamber has an acting chairman, but this does not affect the quality of its work. I think this personnel issue will be resolved when the time comes, when the Parliament and the Government select suitable candidates. It is not something that hinders the agency’s work. Look, it is not for me to draw this line. It should be in the minds and should remain on the conscience of those people who make certain statements. I would like to emphasise that in most cases people make such statements because they want to preserve their business, to preserve their assets, especially if they have moved and decided to bind their lives to another country. He lives in Israel, and I can imagine that, to live a good and prosperous life there and have good relations with authorities, he has to make certain statements. He had been silent for a long time before he decided to make a statement. God grant him health and may he live well there. Frankly speaking, we are not particularly bothered by what he said. But in general, if a person grew up on this soil, got an education and became successful, he should have some respect for the country that gave him everything. I am not referring to Volozh – he is a gifted person who created a really good company and handpicked a team – I am not referring to him, but in general. Yes, one can imagine that a person does not agree with what the current authorities are doing. Do they have the right to express their views? By all means. But there are quite a few fine points here. We can side with our geopolitical adversaries and play along with them, thus damaging our country’s interests, or we can act otherwise. There are many nuances here. People decide for themselves who they are. Do they have a sense of national identity? Or do they prefer to mimic and feel like someone else, not a Russian person born in the Soviet Union? A person makes their own choices. Rest assured that ordinary citizens of Russia, our people, understand everything perfectly well and there is no way to mislead anyone. If someone has chosen a new destiny, let them try to make themselves known there, to prove themselves and to achieve results. Because whoever they may be, whatever results they have achieved, they have achieved them here, and it is not guaranteed that they will achieve the same in some other place. This is their choice. I am aware of that. You know, I trust researchers regardless of nationality. If they are serious people, serious researchers, I do not just trust them, but I admire their work, their lives, and the results of their work, because a real scientist is immersed in the subject he or she is working on. These people put their whole life into the cause to which they have devoted it, even at the expense of their own lives. Examples in our country and abroad abound. If they are fooling around, they are certainly not scientists, but rather quasi-scientists who entertain the public. It is not a bad thing either, let them fool around. Although a better choice would be to go to the circus and take in a show. The fact that Mr Chubais is hiding out there for some reason… I was shown some online photo where he is no longer Anatoly Borisovich Chubais, but some Moshe Israelievich who lives somewhere… I am not sure why he is doing that and why he ran off. You see, it may also have to do with the fact that there are complex processes going on in the nanotechnology industry which he headed for many years. There is a big hole there, a huge financial hole, really. I am not even going to give you the numbers, big numbers. Thankfully, there are no criminal cases or prosecutions involved. Maybe it is connected with that, and he fears that in the end it will lead to a criminal case and that is why he went underground in Israel. Frankly, I have no clue why he did it. Well, that is nonsense. He also writes… He is no fool. I have not read this article, maybe he wrote something useful. But, by all appearances, he failed in his job as head of a large company that was created to develop nanotechnology. At least from an economic and financial point of view he failed. No, there is no deprivatisation planned, there will be no deprivatisation, I can tell you that for sure. The prosecutor's office is investigating certain cases, certain companies, but that’s different – law enforcement agencies are authorised to investigate what is happening in the economy in specific cases, but this has nothing to do with any policy on deprivatisation. This will not happen, and Igor Krasnov knows my approach. Mr Krasnov? He is nodding that he knows. No one is going to make anyone’s life a nightmare, but everyone must comply with the laws of the Russian Federation. And if they do not, then they should be prepared for the Prosecutor's Office, the Investigative Committee and the Accounts Chamber investigating what is happening, including in the economic sphere, and urge everyone to comply with Russian law. But no one is going to be prosecuted simply for doing business. Moreover, I would like to emphasise once again, especially in today's If something becomes state property, it goes through the procedures prescribed by law. If the asset is taken into state agency management, these agencies manage it in accordance with the law, and the law insists on public tenders. No. You see, space exploration is a complex and responsible endeavour that is tied to high technology. We do not just have practical experience here, we have excellent competencies. As for landing on a site where no one has ever landed before, yes, it is a difficult job, of course, and it will be analysed accordingly, and the work will continue. It is a pity, of course, that the moon landing did not take place, but that does not mean that we are going to end the programme. We will keep working on it. Have there not been any incidents of that kind in other countries, even more serious ones with grave consequences? Of course, this is always about dealing with uncertainty. So, there is nothing unusual here, although we would like to see everything succeed next time. But we will continue this work and reinforce certain areas of it. As for private business, Elon Musk is certainly an outstanding person, it must be recognised, I think this is recognised all over the world. He is an energetic and talented businessman, and he is making a lot of things happen, including with the support of the American state. For our part, we also plan to develop this area. Roscosmos has pursued projects that have been supported by the Government to the effect that we will attract private investors to this area of activity, and we are already attracting them quite successfully. I have a programme for my visit, and you will find out everything when I get there. In general, I To inspire people to have a good healthy family, promote traditional values, including religious values too. This is a whole host of actions. We will work on it, but this must surely be done by the entire society. Why, they exist. We try to support large families, where there are ten or more children. Yes, of course, we must keep this in mind and under no circumstances allow that to happen in Russia. This is a very sensitive moment in the life of the Russian state. The economy, of course, requires the use of migrant workers in certain sectors, most of all in the construction sector. I think that is where 33 percent of all migrants work. In general, The law says the parliament is to appoint the next election at the end of the year. When the decision is made, the election will be announced, the date will be appointed, then we will talk. Why should we be concerned about that? I believe there will be no fundamental change in US foreign policy towards Russia, regardless of who becomes President. It is true that we hear Mr Trump say he can resolve many serious problems, including the Ukraine crisis, in a few days. Well, that is something to be happy about. It would be good. But, in the grand scheme of things, we… by the way, despite the accusations of him having special ties with Russia, which is complete nonsense and absurdity, he imposed the greatest number of sanctions on Russia during his presidency. So, I find it difficult to say what to expect from a new President, whoever it may be. It is unlikely, though, that any crucial change will take place, because the current authorities have conditioned American society to be anti-Russia in nature and spirit; that is how things are. They did this, and it will now be very difficult for them to turn that ship around. That is the first point. Second, they view Russia as an existential and constant adversary or even an enemy and implant this idea into the heads of ordinary Americans. This is not good because it fosters hostility. Despite this, there are many people in America who want to build good and friendly business relationships with us and, moreover, share many of our positions, primarily from the perspective of preserving traditional values. We have many friends and like-minded people there. But, of course, they are being suppressed. So, we have no way of knowing who will be elected, but whoever it is, it is unlikely that the anti-Russia policy of the United States will change. As for the persecution of Trump, well, in today's conditions, in my view, that’s a good thing. Because it reveals the rotten American political system, which should not be able to claim it can teach others about democracy. Everything that is happening to Trump is the political persecution of a political rival. That is what it is. And it is happening in the eyes of the US public and the whole world. They have exposed their domestic problems. In this sense, if they are trying to fight us, it is good because it shows, as they used to say in Soviet times, the beastly appearance of American imperialism, its beastly snarling grimace. First, I would like to say that my face-to-face conversations with Alexander Solzhenitsyn persuaded me that he was honest and sincere in his patriotic feelings towards Russia. To an extent, he was a nationalist, but in the positive, civilised sense of the word. With this in mind, I am not surprised that this quote belongs to him. This is my first point. Second, everything that deals with Russia’s relations with the West revolves around the geopolitical interests of the Western countries. This applies to all these attacks, including in the spiritual domain – they are all an extension of this geopolitical confrontation. Of course, the West has long sought to convert Russia to Catholicism and to bring it under the Holy See’s rule. And when that failed, they started searching for ways to cast our country as the Evil Empire. It was Reagan who coined this phrase, but in fact we have been seeing this since the Middle Ages, or maybe even earlier. Whenever Russia raised its head and emerged as a real geopolitical competitor, and I am talking about competition here and nothing else, Russia instantly came up against someone’s containment policies. By the same token, the West is seeking to contain China in its development, seeing that under the Chinese Communist Party’s leadership and with our friend, President of the People’s Republic of China at the helm, the country has been making great strides in its development. This comes as a shock to them, and they are doing everything to slow China’s development. But they have not been able to do this, they are late. This is a missed opportunity for them, and it is already too late. This is an objective process. This is not just about China. There is also India, as well as Indonesia. New centres of power will emerge, and in their efforts to contain these processes certain Western countries, led by the United States, will do nothing but hurt themselves. I never share secret information. How could you think otherwise? I used to work for the KGB, after all. You know, we talked to each other one on one for four hours. There were so many nuances and details. All I can say is that in recent years we have indeed reached an unprecedented level in our relations. This applies to our interactions in all their aspects. We had a meeting with the Chinese delegation today. Compared to our statistics, the Chinese’ statistics show an even greater volume of trade between our countries. We have every chance to maybe reach $200 billion in trade this year, even if I cannot be sure that we will succeed since it depends on various changing factors like price fluctuations or currency exchange rates, so we will have to wait and see how they effect it. But what matters here is that we are proactive in promoting our cooperation, rather than specific figures. Indeed, we have reached a remarkable level in our relations on international security matters and in terms of coordinating our positions. We act in each other’s interests and seek to hear each other on many important issues. This means both listening and hearing, and responding at the government level, at the heads of state level, at the ministerial level, as well as in the contacts between security and military agencies and institutions. We have upgraded our cooperation and reached unprecedented heights in this regard. You know, China is an independent country, and it prioritises its own interests. The same applies to Russia as it pursues its own interests. It would be wrong to argue that we do not respond to each other’s requests. Let me cite a sensitive issue dealing with opening the Chinese market to our coal and mining companies. China too faces some challenges in the coal industry, and they also want their miners to supply their goods to the domestic market, but still, they opened their market to our coal producers, and this has been quite a substantial effort. Indeed, we have yet to reach an agreement on pork, but they have their own contracts, and the Government has been reluctant to interfere in these business dealings since these companies have long-standing ties. We must resolve the African swine fever issue. Do we face these challenges? We do. And we need to address them. These are all current matters and work in progress, and we need to address them at the corresponding level. We are making progress on all these fronts, and I have no doubt that we will succeed in resolving the issues you mentioned. However, we must do our part and demonstrate the advantages we have to offer. And our Chinese partners have been quite receptive to our initiatives. You said that they refrain from launching manufacturing in Russia, but have they not done just that over in Tula? A car plant. So how can you say that they do not open any manufacturing facilities here? They do, in fact. But they need to explore the market, assess the investment they are willing to offer and the potential returns, right? This means that we must address certain issues on our side to offer investors favourable terms. We have been quite good in high technology, and the project to build nuclear power plants in China goes on, and there are quite a few of them, in fact. Of course, Russia is a leading provider in this sector with outstanding performance, both domestically and internationally. Our Chinese partners acknowledge this and offer us these projects and let us use these sites, despite the fact that they are developing their nuclear sector too. However, they have been willing to reach out to us since our proposals have their own competitive advantages. For example, we need to reach common ground on the wide-body aircraft project. This is a challenging task, but we are making progress, even if the talks have been going on for quite some time now, but still, we must deliver. To give you another example, in helicopter manufacturing we have a clear competitive edge on the international market, but this has not prevented us from working with China. We will make heavy-lift helicopters – there is an agreement to this effect too. We have been working together in the space sector, and despite certain challenges we have some competitive advantages here as well. They are quite willing to work with us. Once again, we must recognise that the People’s Republic of China has achieved a lot in high technology under the guidance of its current leader. It is our duty to talk this over with them, and this work is underway. We must understand how they can benefit from working with us in order to offer them favourable terms. This is normal business practice. The fact that it rests on a solid foundation of mutual trust cannot be underestimated. I am certain that we will move forward. This is not what got the Americans so scared. The United States is scared of China because it is home to 1.5 billion people, and this economy is making great strides in its development. This is what scares the US. It is a challenge for the United States – that much is for sure. Chips are also important, of course, but it is only part of the story. You know, every person makes their own choice, and we have already covered that. According to various estimates conducted by journalists, approximately 160–170 cultural figures have left abroad because they disagree with the policies of the Russian state. You can disagree with the policies of the Russian state and still be here and talk about it; no one is prohibiting that. But some have chosen to leave. This is not only related to the position of people from the art world who disagree with what the Russian leadership is doing, but also has to do with material considerations. In recent years, many have bought houses or flats abroad and opened bank accounts there. They want to hold onto that; they are afraid of losing it. That is one of the reasons, and I am not saying it is the only one. They leave in order to preserve their assets. They are required – this is well known – to make statements, to criticise, and to denounce. So, they criticise and denounce. To reiterate, there are people who sincerely disagree with what the Russian state and Russian authorities are doing. But, I repeat, no one prevents them from criticising while being here, yet they chose to leave. So be it; it is their choice. Has Russian culture been affected by this? Probably, yes. If a talented person has left who could have done something here, then we have probably lost something. On the other hand, frankly, maybe it is better for them to serve the interests of the country they want to serve abroad, rather than here, where they would be influencing millions of our citizens and promoting non-traditional values. It is a complex matter, but ultimately, everyone is the master of their own destiny. If they have decided to leave, so be it. Thankfully, everything is working here, including theatres, concert halls, and exhibition venues. Many artists travel to the special military operation zone to support our heroes on the frontline. They have made that choice. And they, without a doubt, are doing everything in the interests of the Russian people. No one closed it; they went there on their own. Who told them not to come back? We cannot do that. What are we talking about here? The issue is that, according to Russian law, a Russian citizen can live wherever they want, but no one can revoke their citizenship or deny their entry to the Russian Federation. We are not pulling in anyone. Who are we pulling in? This law has been in effect in the United States since 1937 or 1938. Our law is almost a copy, only it is much more liberal, and we keep talking about that. In the United States, the law provides for criminal prosecution and imprisonment for certain actions. Who is a foreign agent in Russia? It is a person who engages in public activities for money from a foreign state. And this law does not even prohibit them from continuing this activity; it only requires them to disclose the sources of their funding. We know very well that whoever pays the piper calls the tune. If they are paid here, inside the country, to engage in public activities, at least they should show the source of their funding. There is nothing unusual about that. However, there are many nuances, and human rights activists have repeatedly pointed them out to me. Some people who are not really involved in public activities but engage in environmental work and other things get caught up by this law. Yes, we are amending it. I keep asking law enforcement agencies, the prosecutor's office and investigative bodies to propose ways to improve this procedure. But if you are asking me whether it is possible to have this status lifted, yes, it is possible, and there have been precedents through court rulings. You should ask him why he is making statements on behalf of Ukraine; I have no way of knowing. All the time. They have suffered significant losses, including 543 tanks and nearly 18,000 armoured vehicles of various classes, and so on. So, it appears that they want, as their Western curators are telling them, to bite off as much territory as they can, pardon my language. And then, when all resources, both personnel and equipment and ammunition, are close to zero, they will seek to stop the hostilities, saying they have been talking about wanting negotiations for a long time now, but use these talks only to buy time and to replenish their resources and to restore the combat capabilities of their armed forces. This tactic is possible. In any case, it is one possibility. Again, if there is a sincere desire to achieve something through talks, then let them do so. But why is Blinken saying that?! Let the Ukrainians themselves say that they are rescinding the executive order I mentioned and say so. They have publicly stated that they will not engage in talks. Now let them publicly state that they want to. I do not see anything here that would damage their image. Listen, from all sides the people we communicate with who would like to act as intermediaries, Listen, I have already told you that first they should rescind the executive order that prohibits talks and announce that they want to engage in negotiations, and that is all there is to it. Then we will see what happens next. You know, we talked about that, but I have to repeat. Not too long ago, the US administration considered the use of cluster munitions to be a war crime, they said this publicly. Now they are sending cluster munitions to the combat area in Ukraine. I am talking about a different matter now. They announced publicly that it was a crime, but they are doing it anyway. Overall, they don’t care what people think of them; they always do everything only in their own interest. They made some estimates, and since the 155-mm ammunition is running out and it is hard to manufacture it in Europe or in the US, they are supplying what they have in their arsenals. Well, they have cluster bombs, so there they go. The same is true of depleted uranium. Using this is a crime, they said, not me, they said it is a crime. But they are doing it now anyway. Nothing is working. Of course, it is taking a toll on us. The same is true of depleted uranium. It contaminates the ground. Is that bad? It’s very bad. We know what it is. The land will be contaminated anyway. And what about it? Has it altered the situation? The British have been sending these shells for a long time. Has it changed anything on the battlefield? No. Now they are going to send F-16s. Will it change anything? No. It is just dragging out the conflict. Their election process begins in November, and they need to show some results at any cost. They are pushing Ukraine to continue the hostilities, no matter what they say publicly, because they do not care about Ukrainians. Surprisingly, today's Ukrainian leadership does not seem to care about its own people, either; they just throw them like firewood into a stove, plain and simple. Will this change anything? I think not. I am sure it will not. Will it drag the conflict out? Yes, it will. But what concerns us is the fact that they have no restraints. Let me share a story. Not long ago, on our territory, the Federal Security Service, during an armed confrontation, eliminated several troops and captured the rest. They turned out to be a sabotage group from Ukrainian special services. Interrogations are underway. What were their objectives? Their mission was to damage one of our nuclear power plants, blow up a power line, high-voltage transmission lines, with the aim of disrupting the power plant’s operation. This was not their first attempt at that. During the interrogation, they said they had been trained by British instructors. Do they understand what they are playing with? Are they trying to provoke us into taking retaliatory actions against Ukrainian nuclear facilities? Does the British government and the Prime Minister know what their intelligence agencies are doing in Ukraine, or are they are clueless? I even consider the possibility that British intelligence agencies are acting under the instructions of the Americans, and we know who the ultimate beneficiary is. Do they understand what they are dealing with, or not? I think they are simply underestimating the situation. You know I am aware that once I say this, they will start yelling that this is another threat, nuclear blackmail, and so on. I assure you that what I just said is the full and unadulterated truth. These individuals are in our custody and cooperating. I I told you that they could be provoking us into taking such actions. No. I would only like to add that we – our experts – are not only helping defuse mines but are also training local personnel. We have already trained 150 local demining professionals. I do not think there has been any turnaround to speak of. We see and understand what is happening. You know, there is a lot I can say on this subject. We proposed a number of settlement solutions. Frankly – and I think it is a well-known fact ­­– Armenia controlled seven districts that it gained control of after the Armenian-Azerbaijani conflict in question. We proposed that an agreement is reached with Azerbaijan in a way that two districts – Kalbajar and Lachin – remain within Armenia’s jurisdiction, as well as the entire Karabakh. However, the Armenian leadership did not agree to this, even though we tried to persuade them to do so for 10 or even 15 years. There were several options, but they all came down to this. When asked what they were going to do, they said they were going to fight. Well, all right. In the end, everything has ended in the state of affairs we are seeing today. But it is not just about the outcomes of the recent conflict; it is also about the fact that the Armenian leadership has essentially -–well, not essentially, but effectively ­– recognised Azerbaijan's sovereignty over Karabakh and documented it in the Prague declaration. Truth be told, we are aware of this. Now, Since Armenia has recognised Nagorno-Karabakh as part of Azerbaijan, what is there to discuss? This is the key aspect of the issue. Armenia determined the status of Karabakh itself. That is all there is to it. He sent me a detailed message. We maintain communication. We have no issues with Armenia or Prime Minister Pashinyan in this regard; we remain in contact at all times. Look, forced mobilisation is taking place in Ukraine. It comes in waves, one after another, and I do not know if there is anyone left to call up there. We carried out a partial mobilisation. As you know, we called up 300,000 people. Over the past six or seven months, 270,000 people have volunteered for contract service in the Armed Forces and volunteer units. Yes, of course, they signed up in the past six or seven months. People go to military recruitment offices and sign contracts. As many as 270,000 have done this. Moreover, the process continues. Every day, between 1,000 and 1,500 people come to sign up, every day. You know that this is the distinguishing feature of the Russian people, Russian society. I do not know if this is possible in any other country because our people consciously sign up in the current situation, knowing that they will be ultimately sent to the frontline. Our men, our Russian men, realising in full measure what lies ahead and understanding that they might die defending their Motherland or be seriously wounded, they still make this choice, voluntarily and consciously, to protect their country’s interests. You spoke about elections. They have been held everywhere, including in the Zaporozhye and Kherson regions and in the Lugansk and Donetsk republics. They were held in difficult conditions there, and I admire the courage of the staff at polling stations. When bombing raids began there – the enemy also targeted voting stations, people went into basements, leaving them to resume their work when the raids were over. People came to voting stations and stood in lines despite the possibility of attacks on them. Why am I saying this? The reason is that our soldiers, our men, our heroes who are fighting on the frontline know that there are people they must protect, and this is the key point. We are protecting our people. No, let us wait for the historians from the future. It is only the future generations that will be able to assess what we have done for this country in an objective way. You know, I recall what Prince Potyomkin wrote to Catherine the Great about the annexation of the Crimea. I will not be able to reproduce the exact quote, but I can convey the meaning. I will say this. The situation being what it is, we should in the first place be guided by the athletes’ interests. Each of them, who trained for these crucial competitions for years or even decades, should take a decision all on their own. As for the Olympic Movement itself, this is what I would like to say. I believe that the current management of international federations and the International Olympic Committee are distorting Pierre de Coubertin’s original idea that sport must be beyond politics, that it should not disunite people – it should unite them. What has happened over the past few decades? The Olympic Movement has been caught in the trap of financial interests. International sports and the international Olympic Movement has been commercialised, which is unacceptable, and this commercialisation has resulted in… What am I talking about? The sponsors, commercial airtime, the leading Western companies, which ultimately provide the basis for the functioning of the International Olympic Committee and the movement as a whole, directly depend on the political organisations and governments in their countries. Taken together, this combination has created a situation in which international sports and the Olympic Movement are declining and no longer fulfil their main functions. The main idea is not only to break records but to bring people together, but the international Olympic Movement is no longer doing this. This is deplorable for the Olympic Movement itself because alternative movements will be created, one way or another, and nothing can be done about this because it is an objective process. Next year, we will hold the World Friendship Games; we will hold competitions within the framework of BRICS, and those who are depoliticised will happily attend them. This will have a destructive effect on the current international organisations. They must be rejuvenated, including in terms of personnel. It is regrettable that this is happening, but we will protect the interests of our athletes. This is the first point. Second, we will create alternative possibilities for them, including in terms of the financial results of their achievements. I said at the beginning of my answer that people worked towards their goals for decades but have been prevented from reaching them for political reasons. You know, there is one more element in this. I do not know if I can say this, but some people say that sports and international competitions have become the sublimation of war. There is something in this. I am not judging anyone, but it is important for athletes, especially top-class ones, to hear the anthem and see the flag of their country when they stand on the podium. But ultimately everyone makes his or her own choice. This is what I believe. You have just mentioned that for some countries, the image of their future includes their membership in organisations like NATO or the EU. Do you realise what you have just said? In other words, their future is linked not only to interaction with others, but with their complete dependence on others. In the defence sphere, they need someone to provide cover for them; otherwise, they will fail. In the economic sphere, they need someone to send them funds, or else they will not be able to lift their economy. By the way, no one wants peace in Ukraine because, if the war comes to an end, they will have to answer to their people for the economic and social aspects, and there is not much to show. I doubt that, once the hostilities are over, the recovery of Ukrainian economy will ensue. Who will even feed them? I doubt it. We are the makers of our future. I recently met with young scientists at Sarov. They asked me questions too, at least we talked about this. What about? I want to say this, maybe in a different format, but the core idea will be the same. Scientists engage in R&D. Industrialists work in the sphere of material production, agriculture, in the industrial sector, etc. Cultural figures create images to preserve our values, which shape the inner life of every person and each citizen of Russia. All of this taken together will certainly yield a result. All of this should become embodied in our country’s self-reliance, including in the areas of security and defence. But this does not mean that this country will go into self-isolation. This means that we will develop our own country and make it even stronger in cooperation with our partners and friends and in integration with the overwhelming majority of countries that represent most of the world population. I have already mentioned industry, science, and so on. But in so doing, we must under all circumstances preserve the soul of Russia, the soul of our multi-ethnic and multi-faith nation. This humanitarian component, along with science, education and real production, will be the basis upon which this country will advance, while feeling and taking itself as a sovereign and fully independent state with good prospects for development. It will be this way. Look, despite all the restrictions imposed against Russia… What did they hope for? They expected our financial system to fall into pieces, the economy to collapse, industrial plants to grind to a stop, and thousand-strong work teams to be left jobless. But nothing of that happened. Last year’s performance placed Russia among the top five major world economies in terms of purchasing power parity and the economy’s volume. There is every chance that we will continue along this path. I did say that inflation in Russia had grown somewhat, but it is within the bounds of relevant indicators. Unemployment is at a historical low of three percent. This is unprecedented – a three-percent national unemployment figure. Of course, some other workforce-related issues emerge in this connection, but they are being addressed as well. Real incomes are rising for the first time in several years. Yes, these are modest incomes, as I said, but the trend is in the right direction. Real disposable incomes and real wages are also growing. Taken together, all of this gives us every reason to think that Russia not only has a sustainable and good future but also that this future is secured by the efforts of our entire multi-ethnic people.
Mr President, friends, I join my colleague and friend, President Japarov, in congratulating all of you on breaking ground for three new Russian-Kyrgyz schools in Kyrgyzstan with instruction in Russian. It is symbolic that we are launching this important and highly relevant project on September 1, Knowledge Day, which traditionally marks the beginning of the new academic year, both in Russia and Kyrgyzstan. I would like to take this opportunity to wish all the best to Kyrgyzstani as well as Russian schoolchildren, university students, teachers and educators on this holiday. In a minute, the cornerstones will be laid in the foundations of the schools in Bishkek, Batken and Karakol. I am sure that the builders will work efficiently and quickly so that in 2026, pupils will be sitting at their new desks. Russia plans to build nine schools in seven cities and two villages in the republic by 2027, to serve over 11,000 children. The new educational institutions will be equipped with the most advanced technologies. This will help make the teaching and learning process comfortable, interesting and exciting. The school buildings have been designed to meet the highest safety standards, including those specific to Kyrgyzstan – I am referring to seismic risks. Russia will fund the construction and equipping of the schools, including the sports infrastructure that President Japarov just mentioned, swimming pools, and textbooks. Teaching at schools will be carried out simultaneously according to Russian and Kyrgyz educational standards. I think this is very important because graduates will receive two diplomas, a Russian and Kyrgyz one. Everyone knows that this indeed is a significant competitive advantage in the further professional path. Both Russian and Kyrgyz teachers who have undergone special training at Russian universities will work at schools, which will make it possible to combine and integrate the teaching, mentoring and educational potential of our countries, as well as to ensure a high quality of education at the future joint schools. I know that there are 251 schools in Kyrgyzstan with tuition in Russian, and in another 416, pupils study Russian along with Kyrgyz and other languages. Russian teachers provide methodological assistance to those schools. In particular, the Russian Teacher Abroad project has been successfully implemented in Kyrgyzstan since 2019. In the new academic year, about 120 teachers from Russia will teach Russian language and literature, physics, mathematics, chemistry, biology and computer science in 51 Kyrgyz schools. Let me remind you of another Russian humanitarian project called The Power of the Mind. Under this project, schoolchildren from friendly countries – including, of course, Kyrgyzstan, which is our strategic partner – can take advantage of physics and mathematics courses taught in Russian. This project started in 2022 and has attracted a lot of attention since, so it was decided to increase enrolment for these extracurricular physics and mathematics programmes. This September, almost 700 pupils at secondary schools in Kyrgyzstan will start the programme. Our countries are actively conducting student exchanges. It is common for Kyrgyz schoolchildren to be invited to Russia for a three-month period to study Russian language, history, culture and other subjects. Moreover, Russia and Kyrgyzstan are fruitfully cooperating in higher education, as the President of Kyrgyzstan has just said. Currently, over 16,000 university students from Kyrgyzstan are studying in Russia, including 7,000 with the Russian government’s grants. The government quota for Kyrgyzstan in the 2023/24 academic year will be 1,000 places with such grants. Kyrgyz-Russian Slavic University with a student body of over 7,000 is also involved in educating professionals. In October of this year, the university will celebrate its 30 th anniversary. The network of Russian university branches is also expanding in Kyrgyzstan, as has been mentioned. For example, I can confirm that Moscow State University is planning to open a branch of its own. Let me stress that all these diverse education projects have become possible largely thanks to President Sadyr Japarov’s support and personal involvement. President Japarov is doing much to preserve the position of the Russian language in Kyrgyzstan. In general, I want to say that Kyrgyzstan pays much attention to this matter. Russian is a state language, and this unique state of affairs is evidence that Kyrgyzstan attaches high importance to promoting our relations. I remember President Japarov say during our meeting in February 2021 that it is necessary to build Russian schools almost in every district centre of Kyrgyzstan. We will certainly support this. Due to our joint efforts, this work is making good headway. I am confident that the new Russian schools will contribute to the comprehensive education and training of Kyrgyzstan’s rising generations, thereby promoting the traditions of friendship and mutual understanding between our two nations as well as the further development of the truly strategic partnership of Russia and Kyrgyzstan. Friends, Yesterday, as we all know, the Kyrgyz Republic marked its Independence Day. We and I personally congratulated Kyrgyzstan and its President on this holiday. But today, I would like once again to sincerely congratulate President Japarov, all our Kyrgyz colleagues, and the whole of the friendly Kyrgyz nation on this holiday. I wish all of you happiness, wellbeing, and every success in all your undertakings. I believe that our cooperation in education will facilitate this. Thank you for your attention.
Mr President , friends, colleagues, I would like to join the other participants in today’s event in thanking our South African friends for their contribution to our joint efforts, primarily in terms of coordinating the declaration. I must point out that this was quite a challenging task, as it turns out, and President Ramaphosa has demonstrated outstanding diplomatic agility and skill in coordinating all the positions, including those dealing with the BRICS expansion. Our Brazilian colleague, President Lula da Silva, has just highlighted several issues that matter the most for all of us. I believe that a single settlement currency definitely deserves our attention. This is a complex issue but we have to move towards resolving it in one way or another. The second issue deals with carrying out economic transactions between our countries. I would like to congratulate the countries joining BRICS which will be able to fully contribute to its work effective next year. I want to assure all of my colleagues that we will continue the initiative we started today, to expand the influence of BRICS in the world, by establishing practical cooperation with new members and with the parties collaborating with us in the outreach format, as well as with our partners who assign importance to cooperation with BRICS and would like to work with us. We have been treating this matter with a lot of attention and respect and will undoubtedly embark on this effort, while maintaining contacts with all of our partners and seeking their advice on ways to proceed with this undertaking. We will devise regulations during our joint discussions at the level of foreign ministers, other agencies in order to ensure that the global role and standing of BRICS keeps growing. Thank you very much. See also BRICS leaders’ extended format meeting August 23, 2023 Video Address to the Participants in the BRICS Business Forum August 22, 2023
Esteemed President Ramaphosa, ladies and gentlemen, friends, I am pleased to greet representatives of government institutions and business, specialists and industry experts who have gathered for this meeting of the BRICS Business Forum. I would like to note that holding such business forums on a regular basis, along with the systemic work of the BRICS Business Council, which brings together top businessmen and heads of major companies of the five countries, plays an immense practical role in promoting mutual trade and investments, enhancing cooperation ties and expanding direct dialogue among the business communities – and thus effectively contributes to accelerated socio-economic growth of our states and achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals. It is important that this Forum focuses on such pressing issues as the post-pandemic economic recovery of the BRICS states, improvement of citizens' well-being, industrial modernization, development of effective transport and logistics chains, and stimulation of equitable technology transfers. These challenging and complex tasks need to be tackled against the backdrop of the increasing volatility in stock, currency, energy and food markets, coupled with substantial inflationary pressure stemming from, inter alia, the irresponsible large-scale money creation by a number of countries seeking to mitigate the effects of the pandemic, which has led to the accumulation of private and public debt. The global economic situation is also seriously affected by the illegitimate sanctions practice and illegal freezing of assets of sovereign states, which essentially amounts to the trampling upon all the basic norms and rules of free trade and economic life – norms and rules that not so long ago seemed immutable. Shortage of resources, growing inequality, rising unemployment, and aggravation of other chronic problems in the global economy are the direct consequences of this. Prices for food, basic agricultural products and crops are forced up, making the most vulnerable, poor countries suffer the most. Importantly, under these circumstances, the BRICS states have stepped up their interaction, and our joint work to ensure economic growth and sustainable development brings concrete, tangible results. More and more new infrastructure and investment projects are being launched, mutual trade is growing, industry contacts are expanding. The main thing is that our cooperation is based on the principles of equality, partner support, and respect for each other's interests. And that is what lies at the core of our Association's forward-looking strategic course – the course that reflects the aspirations of most of the world’s community, the so-called global majority. The figures speak for themselves. Over the last decade, mutual investments among the BRICS countries have increased six-fold. Their overall investments in global economy have doubled, and their total exports have reached 20 percent of the world exports. As for Russia, the trade volume with our BRICS partners has increased by 40.5 percent, reaching a record of over 230 billion US dollars. In the first half of this year it grew by 35.6 percent compared with the same period in 2022 and constituted 134.7 billion US dollars. I would also like to point out that the share of the BRICS countries, with their population totalling more than three billion people, now accounts for nearly 26 percent of the global GDP; our five countries are ahead of the G7 in terms of purchasing power parity . The objective and irreversible process of the de-dollarization of our economic ties is gaining pace. We are working to fine-tune effective mechanisms for mutual settlements and monetary and financial control. As a result,
Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished foreign guests, Welcome to the 11 th Moscow Conference on International Security. Once again, representatives of defence ministries, diplomats and experts have gathered in Moscow to discuss the global and regional agenda. Today, having this open, honest and unbiased conversation is essential and timely, since it is up to all of us, and the international community as a whole, to shape the future together, and on equal terms. We see a multipolar world order gradually take shape. Most countries are ready to assert their sovereignty and defend their national interests, traditions, culture and way of life. New economic and political centres are consolidating their standing. All this provides a solid foundation for steady and sustainable development around the world, for achieving just and, importantly, real solutions to social, economic, technological and environmental challenges, improving the quality of life and wellbeing for millions of people. At the same time, long-standing hotbeds of conflict are simmering in various parts of the world, and new ones are being provoked. There is no doubt that those behind these conflicts are seeking to benefit from human tragedy by pitching nations against one another, subjugating states into feudal obedience within a neo-colonial system and exploiting their resources without mercy. NATO member states persist in ramping up and upgrading their offensive capabilities, striving to bring the military confrontation into outer space and the cyberspace. They use military and non-military means to pressure others. And all this is taking place amid a disintegrating arms control framework. In particular, the United States is intent on reformatting the existing system of interstate relations in the Asia-Pacific region as it deems fit. In fact, efforts to promote these so-called Indo-Pacific strategies are aimed at creating US-led military and political associations. We cannot exclude that these efforts may pave the way to fully integrating NATO forces with the AUKUS structures as they take shape. There are simmering hotbeds of tension in other regions of the world too. Every region may be special in terms of the security challenges it faces, but all these issues stem from the West’s reckless geopolitical undertakings and selfish neo-colonial actions. For example, in the Sahara-Sahel region, countries like the Central African Republic and Mali have been attacked head-on by a plethora of terrorist groups after the United States and its allies unleashed an aggression against Libya, shattering its statehood. Ukraine is a case in point,
Ladies and gentlemen, foreign guests, I welcome you to the Army 2023 International Military Technical Forum. Over the past years, the forum has rightfully earned high prestige and broad recognition. The event has become one of the world's largest venues for showcasing innovations and modern military products, has made a significant contribution to the development of military technical cooperation, and overall, to the expansion of Russia's multifaceted ties with foreign countries. This time, the forum’s participants and guests – representatives of delegations from various countries – will benefit from its extensive and eventful programme. The display stands, pavilions and ranges at the Patriot Park demonstrate over 28,500 samples of cutting-edge military and dual-use products supplied by 1,500 Russian defence industry enterprises. Russia is open to deepening its technological partnerships and military-technical cooperation with other countries on equal terms, and to working with all those seeking to assert their national interests and independent development path, all countries that believe that working together to build an equal and indivisible security framework is essential as a reliable safeguard for every state. We offer our partners a wide range of up-to-date weapons of almost all kinds and types. This includes the latest control systems, intelligence systems, high-precision weapons and robotics. The discussions at the forum will particularly focus on unmanned aerial vehicles. This industry is growing fast today, both the military and the civilian segments. In fact, we are talking about creating a whole new science-intensive and high-tech industry. We certainly suggest paying attention to the innovative and civilian products of our defence industry companies such as boats and helicopters, amphibians and drones for the widest range of applications. I would also like to note that this year's business programme at the forum, which includes 250 events, focuses on the diversification of the defence industry and the development of artificial intelligence technology. Russia has something to offer in these promising ground-breaking areas. Every year, we see a growing market for AI-enabled products. We are also pleased with more and more foreign defence companies joining the forum. Last year, 32 foreign participants exhibited their products here; this year, their number has grown to 82. We intend to continue taking advantage of the already established cooperation ties as well as to create new ones based on many years of successful experience of mutually beneficial partnerships. We propose developing cooperation in a variety of areas, including personnel training, training foreign military personnel and improving their qualifications, conducting joint command post and other joined exercises. And we expect that, as before, important agreements and export contracts will be signed on the sidelines of the forum. Friends, I am sure that this event will help strengthen military and military technical partnerships for the benefit of security and stability in the emerging multipolar world. I wish you successful work and all the best.
I would like to tell you, friends, that our efforts were not in vain – we worked in a businesslike and truly constructive spirit, in the traditional atmosphere of mutual understanding and, I would like to emphasise, trust and sincere friendship that characterises Russia-Africa cooperation. We had a meaningful and interested exchange of views on the entire range of strategic cooperation between Russia and African nations. In addition, during plenary sessions, numerous bilateral meetings, thematic roundtable discussions and panel sessions, we reviewed in detail current global problems, issues of world economics and politics, food and energy security, stable and sustainable development and cultural and humanitarian cooperation. Additional All news about the trip to St Petersburg. Russia–Africa Summit and Main Naval Parade We determined the main areas of our further joint work and mapped out our plans for enhancing foreign policy coordination, building up trade and investment flows and promoting industrial cooperation between Russia and African countries. We talked about the training of top professionals for African national economies. We drafted and approved the main declaration of the second Russia-Africa Summit and a number of thematic declarations – on preventing an arms race in space, cooperation in international information security, and enhancing cooperation in countering terrorism. In addition, the plan of action of the Russia-Africa Partnership Forum for 2023–2026 is ready for adoption. Colleagues, if nobody objects, let us consider these most important documents adopted. No objections at all? Thank you. In general, we highly value the results of our joint work at the summit. I am sure the achieved results are creating a good foundation for further deepening the Russia-Africa partnership in the interests of our nations’ prosperity and wellbeing. Thank you very much for your joint work today in this format. We still have a number of events ahead. Thank you. See also Russia–Africa Summit July 28, 2023 See also Documents adopted and signed following the second Russia-Africa Summit July 28, 2023
Mr Assoumani, heads of state and government, heads of delegations, friends and colleagues, Additional Vladimir Putin’s concluding remarks at the second plenary session of the Russia-Africa Summit July 28, 2023 I am delighted to welcome you to the plenary session of the second Russia–Africa Summit. Delegates from the overwhelming majority of African states and the heads of leading regional organisations have come here, which is convincing proof of the mutual striving of our nations to develop cooperation in all areas and to strengthen honest, open and constructive partnership. Traditionally strong bonds of friendship and close and mutually beneficial relations link Russia and Africa. Their foundations were laid in the mid-20 th century during the struggle of the African continent’s peoples for their freedom. See also Documents adopted and signed following the second Russia-Africa Summit July 28, 2023 Declaration of the Second Russia–Africa Summit July 28, 2023 For decades, we invariably provided support during the African countries’ difficult fight against colonialism. Unfortunately, some manifestations of colonialism have not been eradicated to this day, and former colonial powers still practice them, including in the economic, information and humanitarian spheres. Russia remembers and cherishes the memory of Africa’s outstanding sons. I will name them, friends. We must remember them, and we must never forget them. I will name Patrice Lumumba, Gamal Abdel Nasser, Nelson Mandela, Ahmed Ben Bella, Omar al-Mukhtar, Kwame Nkrumah, Samora Machel, Leopold Senghor, Kenneth Kaunda and Julius Nyerere. We also remember other African freedom fighters and national leaders of African countries. While relying on the principles of justice and equality, they staunchly promoted independent development for their nations, often sacrificing their lives. These ideals of freedom, independence and sovereignty are also very important now in the difficult period of international turbulence, when a truly multipolar world order is evolving and the era of domination by one country or a group of countries is coming to an end. However, those who are used to their exceptionalism and monopoly in global affairs are resisting this. Therefore, it is no coincidence that the theme of the second Russia-Africa Summit is For Peace, Security and Development, and that the summit is not only focused on the further development of Russian-African strategic cooperation but also on the pivotal issues of global and regional stability, sustainable development of the continent, and the strengthening of all aspects of African countries’ sovereignty. Russia and African states call for building a new, fairer global architecture, are working together to protect international law, the UN Charter and the central role of that global organisation and are trying to coordinate their positions on the main issues on the international agenda. It is notable that our positions on many issues are very close or fully coincide. This can be discerned from the main provisions of the political declaration, which has been prepared for approval at the summit. Russia and African countries are strengthening cooperation in preventing the proliferation of the terrorist threat and in responding to information security challenges. We stand together against the use of the climate change and human rights issues and the so-called gender agenda for unsavoury political purposes. We also reject unlawful practices such as unilateral sanctions and restrictive but actually punitive measures, which harm the countries that pursue independent policies, create global economic problems and hinder development. Naturally, we do not accept the replacement of international law with the so-called rules-based order, which some countries have declared and which they keep changing, transforming and juggling with. Overall, it is not clear what these rules are and who formulated them. But it is clear that certain countries are using them for their own mercenary interests and adjusting them to the political situation. Importantly, Russia and Africa share the inherent commitment to standing up for genuine sovereignty and the right to follow their own unique development path in the political, economic, social, cultural and other areas. However, this aspiration to independence and sovereignty does not mean self-isolation. On the contrary, it implies being open to cooperating with free nations and states who are equals and enjoy the same rights. Additional All news about the trip to St Petersburg. Russia–Africa Summit and Main Naval Parade Sovereignty cannot be viewed as something that can be achieved once and for all. It is something that you must fight for all the time. In this connection, I Thank you very much, Mr Chairperson. Thank you for the praise you expressed about yesterday’s evening event. I think it was really substantial. I am glad you liked it, and I hope that other participants did so as well. Our cultural figures wanted to both place emphasis on Russia’s cultural heritage, of which we are proud and on the connection between our cultures. I think we have succeeded, especially at the concluding stage of yesterday’s event. Thank you very much for your remarks. You have mentioned many interesting aspects. I would like to particularly note your remarks concerning the youth, a very sensitive issue. Africa is filled with much young talent, and the fact that many of those present here still speak fluent Russian many years after they received their education in the Soviet Union is proof of the quality of human capital in Africa. Thank you very much. I give the floor to Interim President of Burkina Faso Ibrahim Traore. Mr Traore, go ahead. Interim President of Burkina Faso Ibrahim Traore at the plenary session of the Russia–Africa Summit. Photo by Donat Sorokin, TASS Interim President of Burkina Faso Ibrahim Traore Traore Ibrahim President of Burkina Faso : Mr President Vladimir Putin, Mr Chair of the African Union, heads of delegations, good afternoon. It is a great honour for me to address you today and to bring you the brotherly greetings of our peoples. First of all, I would like to thank the Almighty for allowing us to meet here and to talk about the future welfare of our peoples. I would also like to apologise to the elders. Please, forgive me if I have wronged you in any way. My generation is asking many questions without getting any answers, but we feel at home, in our family here. Russia is part of the family for Africa, because we have the same history. Russia has suffered many losses to liberate Europe and the rest of the world from Nazism during the Second World War. We also have the same history in that we are the forgotten nations of the world. This has to do with films and books. The role of Africa and Russia in combating Nazism has been mostly forgotten. We have come together today because we need to talk about our countries’ future. What will happen tomorrow in this new, free world which we are striving for, a world without interference in our internal affairs? We have the same prospects. I hope that this summit will give us an opportunity to strengthen ties between our nations. I cannot understand why Africa, with its huge mineral resources, water and sun, is the poorest continent where hunger abounds, and why we have to ask for help. We ask these questions, but we are not getting any answers. We have a chance to build a new kind of relations. I hope that these relations will serve us better and will allow us to create a better future for our peoples. I can say on behalf of my generation that many people, driven by poverty, cross the oceans in search of a better life, and many of them die. Our people are starving and struggling to stay alive. As for Burkina Faso, for the past eight years we have been fighting the most barbaric and cruel form of colonialism and imperialism, which are forcing a modern form of slavery on us. Thank you, Mr Traore. I wanted to draw your attention to the fact that my colleague has just mentioned Russia’s role in fighting Nazism. Some are trying to forget about this and to erase this memory. However, the Soviet Union and Russia led this struggle for the sake of all humankind, to rid the whole world of Nazism. I would like to point out that Africa has also fought for its independence and against apartheid, and not only for its own sake. In fact, it waged this struggle in the interests of all of humanity because this struggle brings about results which elevate relations around the world to a whole new level. This means that these efforts improve the situation around the world. In this sense, I definitely agree with Mr Traore. The struggles the Soviet Union had to wage and what is happening now with Russia are very much similar to what Africa experienced as it fought for achieving genuine independence and freedom. I am pleased to give the floor to President of the Republic of Cameroon Paul Biya. Mr Biya, go ahead please. President of Cameroon Paul Biya at the plenary session of the Russia–Africa Summit. Our colleague has just said that some people find Russia’s growing attention toward Africa perplexing. I don’t think they are being perplexed by this process, but rather they are being somewhat wary of it. That said, what I find perplexing is that there was a point at which Russia started paying less attention toward Africa. We did not give Africa the attention it deserved even though we had a decades-long positive track record in this region. Considering Africa’s future, its potential, and our achievements over the past decades, it was quite natural for Russia and Africa to seek to rebuild their ties. This process will only gain momentum moving forward. The fact that we are working together today is an attempt to move in this direction. Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Mr Touadera, President of the Central African Republic. President of the Central African Republic Faustin-Archange Touadera at the plenary session of the Russia–Africa Summit. Our colleague has just spoken highly of our interstate relations. First, let me assure you that we will make sure to maintain this level of relations in all of our most sensitive areas. Make no mistake about that. It goes without saying that we need to do much more, Thank you very much. It is true that the colonisation of other countries and the slave trade are universally recognised as crimes. Everybody agrees on that now. But not everybody did when Africa was fighting for independence, as we all remember. This is the first point. Second, it is not enough to have a national flag, as one of my colleagues has said just now. This is obvious. But the preservation of some countries’ monopoly in finance, technology, the digital sphere and food is unacceptable and something we must fight. Of course, many people in this room know that the Soviet Union and Russia never thought of Africa as a place where you only buy raw materials. The Soviet Union has built many enterprises, power plants and steel plants in Africa. We should resume that practice, as my colleague has called for, and we will do this on a bilateral basis and at international venues. Thank you very much. I now give the floor to President of the Republic of the Congo Denis Sassou Nguesso. President of the Republic of the Congo Denis Sassou Nguesso at the plenary session of the Russia–Africa Summit. Photo by Donat Sorokin, TASS President of the Republic of the Congo Denis Sassou Nguesso Sassou-Nguesso Denis President of the Republic of the Congo : Mr President of the Russian Federation, Mr Chairperson of the African Union, President of the Union of the Comoros, heads of state and government, Mr Chairperson of the African Union Commission, ladies and gentlemen, Our delegation is grateful for the warm welcome. We are happy to be taking part in the second Russia-Africa Summit. I would like to express our sincere gratitude to President Vladimir Putin for the warm welcome accorded to us. The theme of our meeting today is focused on our striving for peace, security and development. Every historical period is the life of a certain generation. Every generation is faced with its own challenges. People in Africa have always dreamed about unity. In the past, we fought against colonialism; we had to fight against apartheid and for our independence. In that struggle for our independence, Africa received considerable support from the Soviet Union. It was part of a solidarity strategy, which we used to call internationalism. To gain full independence, African countries needed competent and professional elites, and the former Soviet Union helped us at that time. Millions of rubles were spent on the training of African specialists; we had access to many thousand scholarships. Our goal today is to develop in the interests of the prosperity of 2 billion Africans, which is the total population Africa may reach by 2050. The point at issue today, just as yesterday when we were fighting for independence, is that we are fighting for development. Of course, in this endeavour Africa needs the assistance and support from its friends and partners. Today the world has become a global village where all of us live together. Mr President, we acknowledge that it is impossible to industrialise our continent without electrification. You will remember the famous slogan of the great revolutionary of your country – “Communism is Soviet power plus the electrification of the whole country.” Meanwhile, today, 600 million Africans – I will repeat this figure – 600 million Africans live without electricity. In addition, regarding a free trade area and the free movement of people, goods and services, I have to say that it is impossible to ensure this without modern transport and logistics routes , without airports and telecommunications. The African Continental Free Trade Area embodies this kind of vision of the future. We will be able to implement our free trade area plan only if we can rely on adequate infrastructure, but the investment is very expensive. If our countries try to deal with this issue individually, it will go nowhere. We can only implement our plans if we pool our efforts in continental, regional and subregional organisations. Russia’s aid to Africa consists of a strategic partnership and so we are calling for strategic mutually beneficial partnership. Meanwhile, the African countries must focus on the main, priority infrastructure elements. This will be a subject of talks in the framework of public-private partnership, for example. There can be different sources of funding, concessions and long-term loans. Africa will only be able to develop through synergy. Autarky is unacceptable for us. There are, of course, small projects, not very big; but we need large projects. We don’t simply expect charity from someone. We are not standing there with our hands out. Russia-Africa cooperation has a big future. Africa is rich in resources. Our vision of future cooperation is the broadest of all. We are doing all this for the sake of peace and proceeding from mutual trust between partners, which will ensure the fulfilment of commitments and initiatives. Speaking about peace in Africa, I must say again – we are striving for peace, and we hope to see peace in Europe. This is why I am calling, once again, for an end to the Russia-Ukraine conflict. There is this African wisdom – they say the grass is damaged by elephants that trample over it. This could be applied to different things, for example, to agricultural land. These are many-sided problems. Today, our people are affected by many difficulties and problems. Returning to the Russia-Ukraine conflict, I must say that the African Initiative deserves primary attention and should not be underestimated. Therefore, I support Mr Putin’s words in this respect. I would like to say again that we continue to be optimistic. We have many problems, and we are discussing all of them at the summit, and we once again urgently call for the restoration of peace in Europe, in your part of the world. Thank you for your attention. Thank you very much. This is a very important question, and we will make sure to discuss it today since we have allocated a special time slot for that. As for peace, this is definitely true. There is no development without peace at its foundation. But there are two things I wanted to highlight from the speaker’s Thank you very much, Mr President. Relations between Russia and Egypt have been a strategic partnership in nature for decades. This is simply a fact. It is not even important what our documents say, though they say that Russian-Egyptian political and economic relations are really strategic. We have a lot of large joint projects. Now I I fully agree. If we do not think about the near and medium term, it will be difficult to achieve any real positive and necessary results today. Therefore, the creation of such a mechanism of strategic partnership is a very important thing, like a beacon that shows us the way, the direction of our movement. Of course, it is a difficult job. If you want to compare it with the capabilities of our partners and friends in other regions , then, of course, the best tool for this, or the best platform for creating such a tool, is consultations with our BRICS partners. We have colleagues here, the President of the Republic of South Africa – we will try together to promote your proposals with our BRICS partners as well. And of course, we need to think about how to create a mechanism of strategic partnership. This is a difficult job, especially by sector and by country, but if we want to achieve specific results, we need to think about it right now. I agree with you. Thank you very much. I now give the floor to President of the Republic of Guinea-Bissau Umaro Sissoco Embalo. President of Guinea-Bissau Umaro Sissoco Embalo at the plenary session of the Russia–Africa Summit. Photo by Donat Sorokin, TASS President of the Republic of Guinea-Bissau Umaro Sissoco Embalo : Thank you, friend. Mr President of the Russian Federation Vladimir Putin, African heads of state and government who are present in this hall, Chairperson of the African Union, heads of delegations, ambassadors and representatives of international organisations, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by expressing my deep gratitude to the President of the Russian Federation, Mr Vladimir Putin, and to the Government of the Russian Federation for the warm welcome extended to our delegation and to me personally in this beautiful and hospitable city of St Petersburg. I also thank the administration of St Petersburg for the excellent working conditions, which are one of the keys to success. St Petersburg, which used to be called Leningrad, is of course a city inextricably linked to history. It was this city that, during the brutal battles of the Second World War, inspired people all over the world, who later also rose up to fight for the liberation of their nations. Friends, heads of state and government of Africa, Currently, two international events, being hosted in St Petersburg, are taking shape and being filled with meaning. The first is the Russia-Africa partnership forum, which has already taken place and adopted a plan of action for 2023–2026. And today is the day of the Russia-Africa summit. The purpose of both the forum and the summit is to renew and strengthen those historical and truly strategic ties that determined the movement of African peoples towards national independence in the second half of the 20 th century. Mr President Vladimir Putin, ladies and gentlemen, The delegation of Guinea-Bissau has arrived in St Petersburg having done its “homework”. We have prioritised the following objectives of co-operation with Russia in three main areas important for the development of Guinea-Bissau, Thank you very much, my dear friend. Thank you very much, colleague. Thank you very much, colleague. You expressed many important things and we listened to you attentively. But I would like to draw your attention to one point. You said your country is committed to traditional values, and this is precisely what unites us – Russia and the overwhelming majority of people who live on the African continent, the overwhelming majority of African nations. After all, traditional values are a foundation of our identity, our existence and our sovereignty. Our statehood rests on them. To sum up, I fully share these approaches. I now give the floor to President of the Republic of Mozambique Filipe Jacinto Nyusi. President of Mozambique Filipe Jacinto Nyusi at the plenary session of the Russia–Africa Summit. Colleague, thank you very much for sharing your concerns and your vision of future development with us. We had an opportunity to discuss all these issues in detail yesterday. I wholeheartedly wish you success and hope that we will continue our cooperation as we have agreed. Thank you. President of the Republic of Senegal Macky Sall now has the floor. Go ahead, please. President of the Republic of Senegal Macky Sall : Thank you, Mr Putin, President of the Russian Federation, Mr Azali Assoumani, Chairperson of the African Union, Colleagues, Chairman of the African Union Commission, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank President Vladimir Putin for the warm reception and everything he has done to facilitate our stay. I am very happy to meet you for the third time in two years – after the meeting in Sochi on June 3, 2022, and the recent meeting on June 17 as part of the African mission. This summit is taking place in the spirit of agreements, our traditional partnership. These relations took shape during our struggle against colonialism. Our relations are very good but I think we should work harder to make our economic cooperation even more robust. The potential of our partnership is enormous. Africa occupies 30 million square kilometres and is inhabited by over 1.3 billion people. Russia is also a vast country. Our continent and your country put together are a massive association, a union. We have a wealth of mineral resources, tremendous demographic potential and for this reason we can work and cooperate in various areas – agriculture, industry, hydrocarbons, information technology, security, transport and digital economy, to name a few. However, we must create adequate and pragmatic mechanisms – on investment, finances and partnership. You must have noted that I am not talking about help because the fact is I don’t believe in help. I would like to reply to our younger brother and colleague, the President of Burkina Faso. We have come here not to beg for something. We do not travel to other places to beg, either. We are working to create a decent partnership for the development and wellbeing of our nations, no matter where discussions take place, be it in Dakar, Washington or St Petersburg. We are fighting for dignity and this fight extends beyond different generations – many presidents, including President of the Republic of the Congo Denis Sassou Nguesso spoke about this. Every generation has its own battle. We are fighting against terrorism that is undermining our continent. But we must also work for its development. Can we analyse why Africa has found itself in such a situation? Its history is linked with the legacy of colonisation and slavery and it continues in the system of neocolonialism and injustice, which we are countering. We demanded UN reform, reform of global governance. Today, these are the institutions that are dictating their will to us. If these rules remain unchanged, we will achieve nothing. This is why it is very important to display solidarity and work throughout the entire continent because these challenges are vital. We have some small countries that appeared after the Berlin Congress. Sometimes they interfere with our work but we must press on and continue working on large regional projects. Africa needs many infrastructure projects. It needs railways, electricity, dams and so on. There should be finance mechanisms and regional programmes to develop Africa. I think we will be able to work together with Russia, as well as with BRICS and other partners that will be able to align with our priorities. Speaking about our concerns and problems, peace and security on the continent and in the world are our main concern. We want de-escalation in order to ease tensions and restore free trade of grain and fertilisers. This is what I have been saying since the very beginning of the Russian-Ukrainian conflict. We produce corn and many other crops, but how can we work without fertilisers? Of course, all sanctions on the grain and fertiliser trade must be lifted. I think we can make progress in this area, as well as in regard to other partners. Thus, we will be able to speak in favour of lifting sanctions, so that countries could return to the normal free trade for the prosperity of the entire population. I will stop here, because I don't want to drag it out. We would really like Russia to work at the level of the African Union in the field of security. We have the African Architecture for Peace and Security. We are now thinking about how Africa can take it further. The Security Council has failed in its mission, which is to restore world peace. Terrorism, of course, is very harmful to our continent. We can see no solidarity towards Africa. For us, this is a very important topic. The investment programme is another topic I have already spoken about. We should invest together for common welfare and prosperity. Thank you once again for your support of the African Union joining the G20. Africa must be part of the G20 to make the world more just and stable. Africa must take its rightful place. Thank you. I wish you successful work. Thank you, Mr President. You have provided good thoughts for discussion. I will try to be brief and not waste a lot of time, but I would like to draw attention to something. Firstly, I really agree, and everyone here also believes that over the past decade, despite the fact that colonial existence is a thing of the past, the system of neocolonialism still exists. It has been created, and we see this hegemony in finance, technology, food and, by the way, in security conditions, as I have said. When we are told that we must live by the rules written by who knows who, it is an attempt to preserve this neocolonialist system, because they do not want to change these rules, and you have just called for changing the rules that have developed over the past decades. I completely agree with you here. Thank you very much, my colleague, my dear friend. We are in solidarity on the prospects of developing Russia-Africa relations. We are in constant contact and will remain so. As I have already said, today we will focus on the situation related to Ukraine. As for BRICS, I would like to mention that this international organisation was born here, in St Petersburg, where we are now. The leaders of three countries – Russia, India and China – met here for the first time and agreed to meet on a regular basis. This is how RIC – Russia, India and China – emerged. Later, this community was joined by Brazil and became BRIC. It was followed by our friends from South Africa, and the community turned into BRICS. Now our South African friends are holding a summit in South Africa and I wish you success. I am sure it will be a success and the meeting will be held at the highest level. Thank you very much. I am giving the floor to the President of the Republic of Zimbabwe, Mr Emmerson Dambudzo Mnangagwa. Go ahead, please. President of Zimbabwe Emmerson Mnangagwa at the plenary session of the Russia–Africa Summit. Thank you very much. Mr President, my dear friend! This is what I would like to note in connection with your remarks. First, I would like to thank you for appreciating Russia’s contribution to the development of relations with our friends on the African continent. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that sanctions are being introduced against those who do not want to follow rules that someone else invented. In this context, we support the idea of the overwhelming majority of all those present about the need to increase Africa’s role in the UN system. All of us want to live according to the standards of international law rather than the rules that some people have written for themselves but are imposing them on us. Of course, we will support all areas of our bilateral cooperation, everything we discussed at our bilateral meeting yesterday. Allow me to give the floor to the Chairperson of the African Union Commission Moussa Faki Mahamat. Chairperson of the African Union Commission Moussa Faki Mahamat at the plenary session of the Russia–Africa Summit. Thank you very much, Mr Mahamat. We have already spoken about how we can still discuss the situation related to the conflict in Ukraine. Of course, we share your opinion that all differences must be resolved through talks but the problem is that they are refusing to talk with us. The conflict is rooted in the creation of security threats for Russia by the US and NATO. Let me repeat that they are rejecting talks with us on ensuring equal security for all, including Russia. Ukraine itself, or to be more precise, its current regime, is also rejecting talks. This was announced officially, and the President of Ukraine adopted a decree banning talks. We have said more than once – and I officially announced this – that we are ready for talks. But we cannot impose talks on them. It seems to me it is necessary to engage in dialogue with the other side as well, although we are grateful to our African friends for the attention to this problem. As for Russia-Africa cooperation in general, we have worked together, our colleagues and agencies have worked with a view to putting all this into a declaration. We are very grateful to the African Union Commission for its most active participation in this work. I hope we will adopt this declaration as a result of our joint activity during the preparations for the summit. Friends, colleagues, I would like to announce a short break. We still have many speakers ahead. It will be a short one. We will start the second plenary session in the format of a working breakfast. Thank you very much for your joint efforts.  Topics Foreign policy Persons el-Sisi Abdel Fattah Mnangagwa Emmerson Ramaphosa Cyril Sassou-Nguesso Denis Traore Ibrahim 1
Ladies and gentlemen, friends, I would like to extend my heartfelt welcome once again to the participants in the second Russia–Africa Summit and the Russia–Africa Economic and Humanitarian Forum. Friends, we are happy that heads of state and government and leading politicians and government officials from practically all African countries have arrived in St Petersburg. The leaders of executive bodies of African integration associations are also present here. Such a representative range of participants gathered in our northern capital, as we call St Petersburg, convincingly illustrates the mutual desire of Russia and African countries to expand and deepen mutually beneficial ties and contacts. This is also a real confirmation of our common intentions to take Russia-Africa relations to a new, more advanced level in politics, security, in the economic and social spheres. Additional All news about the trip to St Petersburg. Russia–Africa Summit and Main Naval Parade We are convinced that the St Petersburg summit will help us reach this main goal in full measure. We are looking to the future with optimism because Russia-Africa relations rest on the firm foundation of friendship and mutual assistance, an accumulated positive experience of our joint work and a truly rich and eventful history. At one time, the Soviet Union rendered African nations tangible support in the struggle against colonialism, racism and apartheid, in the development of statehood and in the consolidation and protection of independence. It helped them lay the foundations of their national economies. It is enough to recall the construction of important infrastructure, energy, industrial and agricultural facilities, of hospitals and schools. Assistance was granted to form and equip combat-ready armed forces. Hundreds of thousands of Africans graduated from our universities. The knowledge and professions they acquired – engineers, economists, doctors, lawyers, to name a few – have brought and are still bringing practical benefits to African states. Russia will continue to expand on these kinds of traditions. It is equally important to note that today Russia and the African countries stand together for the formation of a just, multipolar world order based on the principles of sovereign equality of states, non-interference in their internal affairs, and respect for peoples' right to determine their own destiny. And, of course, our country will continue to make a real contribution to settling current crises and preventing the emergence of new hotbeds of tension on the continent, fighting terrorism and extremism, pandemics and hunger, and addressing issues of environmental, food and information security.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends, I am delighted to welcome the heads of state who currently chair Africa’s main regional organisations. I also welcome the heads of these associations’ executives bodies. Thank you very much. I always take pleasure and interest in what Mr Mahamat says, because he always manages to touch on the most vital topics in vivid detail. Please, I have already introduced my colleague, Mr Myasnikovich, Chairman of the Eurasian Economic Commission Board, to you. Please, go ahead. Thank you very much, Mr Myasnikovich.  See also Plenary session of the Russia-Africa Economic and Humanitarian Forum July 27, 2023
Thank you. Mr Assoumani, heads of state and government, high representatives of African countries, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by welcoming all of you to St Petersburg. Thank you for accepting our invitation and coming here. In Russia, you are among friends and like-minded people. We have a high-profile line-up of participants in the plenary session of the Economic and Humanitarian Forum. I believe it is symbolic that the Russia-Africa Summit starts its programme with this important event. Its tagline is Technology and Security in the Name of Sovereign Development for the Benefit of Humankind, which is highly topical. Of course, we will discuss all matters on the financial, trade, investment, educational and social agendas in the context of the rapid ongoing changes around the world in terms of digital technology and information. Improving the wellbeing of our people, improving their living standards and resolving the challenges they face in their everyday lives is our main objective. See also All news about the trip to St Petersburg. Russia–Africa Summit and Main Naval Parade I would like to say that many useful and constructive discussions are being held at the forum’s industry-related sessions on energy, logistics, transport, agriculture, finance and healthcare. The participants discuss promising ideas and proposals on new mutually beneficial joint projects, specific practical agreements and commercial contracts. Africa’s potential is obvious to everyone. For example, the average annual GDP growth on the continent in the past 20 years was 4–4.5 percent, which exceeds the world’s average. Africa’s population is approaching 1.5 billion and is growing faster than anywhere else in the world. It is also notable that the middle class, which creates the principal demand for modern goods and services, is growing faster in Africa than in the majority of other parts of the world. Russia’s government, business and the public are sincerely interested in further deepening multifaceted trade, investment and humanitarian ties with the continent, which meets the needs of all our countries and promotes stable growth and prosperity. I would like to note that Russia-Africa trade reached 18 billion US dollars last year. It is an obvious result of the Russia–Africa Summit held in Sochi. I have no doubt that by working together we will be able to increase our trade substantially in the near future. Incidentally, in the first six months of 2023 alone, our export-import transactions with African countries increased by over one third.
Events Article by Vladimir Putin “Russia and Africa: Joining Efforts for Peace, Progress and a Successful Future“ July 24, 2023 00:00 On July 27–28, St Petersburg will host the second Russia-Africa Summit and Russia-Africa Economic and Humanitarian Forum. On the eve of these large-scale representative events which will bring together heads of state and government, entrepreneurs, academia and public figures, I would like to share my vision of the development of Russia-Africa relations with the readers of the leading media on the African continent, outlining priority cooperation areas for the coming decades of the 21 st century. The partnership relations between our country and Africa have strong, deep roots and have always been distinguished by stability, trust and goodwill. We have consistently supported African peoples in their struggle for liberation from colonial oppression. We have provided assistance in developing statehood, strengthening their sovereignty and defence capability. Much has been done to create sustainable foundations for national economies. By the mid-1980s, with the participation of our specialists, over 330 large infrastructure and industrial facilities have been built in Africa, such as power plants, irrigation systems, industrial and agricultural enterprises, which are successfully operating to this day, and continue to make a significant contribution to the continent’s economic development. Tens of thousands of African doctors, technical specialists, engineers, officers and teachers have received education in Russia. I would like to specifically mention the traditionally close cooperation on the world stage, the firm and consistent advocacy rendered by the USSR and then Russia to African countries at international fora. We have always strictly adhered to the “African solutions to African problems” principle, standing in solidarity with Africans in their struggle for self-determination, justice and their legitimate rights. We have never tried to impose on partners our own ideas about the internal structure, forms and methods of management, development goals and ways to achieve them. Unchanged remains our respect for the sovereignty of African states, their traditions and values, their desire to independently determine their own destiny and freely build relationships with partners. We highly value the honestly-gained capital of friendship and cooperation, traditions of trust and mutual support that Russia and African countries share. We are brought together by a common desire to shape a system of relations based on the priority of international law, respect for national interests, indivisibility of security, and recognition of the central coordinating role of the United Nations. Today, the constructive, trustful, forward-looking partnership between Russia and Africa is especially significant and important. Major centres of economic and political power and influence are emerging in the world, which are asserting themselves more and more insistently, demanding that they be reckoned with. We are sure that a new multipolar world order, the contours of which are already seen, will be more just and democratic. And there is no doubt that Africa, along with Asia, the Middle East and Latin America, will take its worthy place in it and finally free itself from the bitter legacy of colonialism and neo-colonialism, rejecting its modern practices. Russia welcomes the rising international authority of individual states as well as Africa as a whole, their desire to make their voices strongly heard and to take the continent's problems into their own hands. We have always supported the constructive initiatives of our partners. We stand for granting African countries their rightful place in the structures that determine the world’s fate, including the UN Security Council and the G20, as well as for reforming the global financial and trade institutions in a way that meets their interests. Regrettably, we see that the situation in the world today is far from stable. The long-standing conflicts that exist in nearly every region are deepening, and new threats and challenges are emerging. And Africa feels the burden of global challenges like no other part of the world. In such a challenging environment, we look forward to working with our African partners to shape a non-discriminatory agenda for cooperation. The strategic areas of our interaction are set by the decisions of the first Russia-Africa Summit held in Sochi in late October 2019. The Russia-Africa Partnership Forum was established for their effective implementation. We have set up bilateral intergovernmental commissions for trade, economic, scientific and technological cooperation with many countries of the continent, and the network of Russian embassies and trade missions in Africa will be expanded. Further instruments are being actively developed to better structure economic relations and make them more dynamic. I would like to note with satisfaction that Russia’s trade turnover with the African countries increased in 2022 and reached almost 18 billion US dollars. However, we are all well aware that the potential of our trade and economic partnership is much higher. Russian companies are interested in working more actively on the continent in the sphere of high technologies and geological exploration, in the fuel and energy complex, including nuclear power, in the chemical industry, mining and transport engineering, agriculture and fishery. The changes taking place in the world require the search for solutions related to the establishment of new transport and logistical chains, the formation of a monetary and financial system, and mechanisms of mutual settlements that are safe and free from unfavourable external impacts. We understand the importance of uninterrupted food supplies for the socio-economic development and political stability of the African states. On this basis, we have always paid great attention to issues related to the supply of wheat, barley, maize and other crops to African countries. We have done so both on a contractual basis and free of charge as humanitarian aid, including through the United Nations Food Programme. Thus, in 2022, Russia exported 11.5 million tonnes of grain to Africa, and almost 10 million tonnes more were delivered in the first half of 2023 – despite the sanctions imposed on our exports, which severely hamper the supply of Russian food products to developing countries, complicating transport logistics, insurance arrangements and bank payments. Many have probably heard of the so-called “grain deal,” whose initial purpose was to ensure global food security, reduce the threat of hunger and help the poorest countries of Africa, Asia and Latin America – the reason why Russia undertook the obligation to facilitate its implementation in the first place. This “deal,” however, while it was publicly advertised by the West as a gesture of goodwill that benefited Africa, has in fact been shamelessly used solely for the enrichment of large US and European businesses that exported and resold grain from Ukraine. Judge for yourselves: in almost a year, a total of 32.8 million tonnes of supplies were exported from Ukraine under the “deal,” with over 70 percent of the exports ending up in high- and upper-middle-income countries, including in the European Union, whereas such countries as Ethiopia, Sudan and Somalia, as well as Yemen and Afghanistan, received less than 3 percent of the supplies, i.e. less than one million tonnes. In the meantime, none of the “deal” provisions relating to the exemption from sanctions of Russian grain and fertiliser exports to world markets, were fulfilled. Moreover, barriers have been mounted even to our attempts to supply free of charge mineral fertilisers to the poorest countries in need. Of 262,000 tonnes of goods blocked in European ports, only two shipments were delivered – one of 20,000 tonnes to Malawi and one of 34,000 tonnes to Kenya. The rest is still unscrupulously held by the Europeans. And this is a purely humanitarian initiative we are talking about, which should be exempt from any sanctions as such. Considering all these facts, there is no longer any use in continuing the “grain deal” as it has failed to serve its original humanitarian purpose. We argued against further extending the “deal,” which terminated as of July 18. I want to give assurances that our country is capable of replacing the Ukrainian grain both on a commercial and free-of-charge basis, especially as we expect another record harvest this year. Notwithstanding the sanctions, Russia will continue its energetic efforts to provide supplies of grain, food products, fertilisers and other goods to Africa. We highly value and will further develop the full spectrum of economic ties with Africa – with individual states as well as regional integration associations and, naturally, with the African Union. We welcome this organisation's strategic course towards further economic integration and the formation of the African Continental Free Trade Area. We are ready to build pragmatic, mutually beneficial relations, including within the framework of the Eurasian Economic Union. We are also willing to step up cooperation with other regional integration organisations on the continent. In keeping with the existing tradition, we intend to continue providing assistance to African states in building their national human resource capacity. There are currently about 35 thousand students from the continent in Russia, more than 6,000 of them receive Russian government scholarships. Each year we increase the number of scholarships, promote paid higher education options and facilitate inter-university ties, which have gained significant momentum in recent times. Bringing humanitarian, cultural, sports and mass media cooperation to a whole new level would serve our common interests. I would like to seize this opportunity to invite our young African friends to the World Youth Festival, which will take place in Sochi, Russia, in March 2024. This large-scale international forum will bring together more than 20,000 participants from more than 180 countries for an informal, friendly and open dialogue that is free from ideological and political barriers, racial and religious prejudice and would consolidate the young generation around the ideals of lasting and durable peace, prosperity and creative spirit. In conclusion, I would like to reiterate that we attach great importance to the upcoming second Russia–Africa Summit. We expect that the Summit would adopt a comprehensive Declaration, a number of joint statements and approve the Russia – Africa Partnership Forum Action Plan to 2026. We are working to prepare an impressive package of intergovernmental and inter‑agency agreements and memoranda with individual states as well as regional associations of the continent. I am looking forward to welcoming the African leaders in St. Petersburg and stand committed to a fruitful constructive dialogue. I firmly believe that the decisions adopted at the Summit and Forum, coupled with continuous diversified joint work will contribute to further development of Russian‑African strategic partnership for the benefit of our countries and peoples. Other languages  Arabic pdf, 340.7 kB French pdf, 293.3 kB German pdf, 357.1 kB Portuguese pdf, 292.2 kB Spanish pdf, 217.2 kB Topics Foreign policy Publication status Published in sections: News , Transcripts Publication date: July 24, 2023, 00:00 Direct link: en.kremlin.ru/d/71719 Text version
As for Ukraine’s NATO membership, as we have said many times, this obviously creates a threat to Russia’s security. In fact, the threat of Ukraine’s accession to NATO is the reason, or rather one of the reasons for the special military operation. I am certain that this would not enhance Ukraine’s security in any way either. In general, it will make the world much more vulnerable and lead to more tensions in the international arena. So, I don’t see anything good in this. Our position is well known and has long been formulated. As for arms supplies, different arms, we saw how many hopes were pegged on relatively long-range missiles. And so what? Yes, they are doing some damage but they don’t play any critical role in the zone of hostilities. The same is true of foreign tanks and infantry combat vehicles. As of last night – just from June 4 – 311 tanks were destroyed. Of this number, a big part, I believe at least one third, were of Western make, including Leopards. I can tell you that Ukrainian servicemen often refuse to even get inside these tanks, because they are a number one target for our military and they tend to destroy them first on the battlefield. This is a sad circumstance that stands in the way of using these tanks in battle. They burn just like other tanks and even better than other tanks like the Soviet-made T-72 tank. So, from the perspective of potential changes in the situation on the battlefield, more deliveries of new weapons will only worsen the situation for Ukraine and add fuel to the conflict. If there is anyone out there who is interested in that, and it appears that there are parties who are interested in that, then sending more weapons is the way to further exacerbate the conflict. With regard to security, we have said many times that all countries have the right to ensure their own security and to choose the path to get there which it believes is the best for it. There is only one limitation related to the fact that while striving to achieve the security of one country, the security of another country must not be jeopardised. Therefore, we operate on the assumption that this principle, which has been repeatedly expressed in various international documents, will be taken into account. Without a doubt, Ukraine has the right to ensure its security. By the way, the draft document that I mentioned several times, namely the draft agreement between Russia and Ukraine which was put together in Istanbul and then tossed out by the Ukrainian regime, set out in detail matters related to ensuring Ukraine’s security. We needed more time to see whether we agreed with what it said, but I think that document was acceptable overall. Therefore, we see nothing unusual in what NATO and the G7 have announced, and we are not against discussing issues like this. Again, this can only be done if the Russian Federation’s security is provided for in full. Of course, there are no secrets here. The point is that initially the UN and Secretary-General Antonio Guterres presented this deal primarily as assistance for the world’s poorest countries with a view to preventing famine there. I would like to emphasise again that price increases on food, food products, on what is produced by agriculture in the world in general, on fertilisers are not related to the special military operation. They are related to mistakes by the leading Western economies in finance and investment, including energy. For many years, they neglected the basic principles of developing the power industry and focused on alternative energy sources. They did not pay enough attention to investing in the oil and gas sector. Some countries renounced the nuclear power industry. So, the result was the reverse of what they expected in energy, and prices started going up. Investments were not made in due time, and shortages began to appear. Now there are no shortages, but the lack of investment created this threat of high prices. The same applies to finance – I have talked about this many times. These are widely-known things but they prefer not to talk about them because they are obvious blunders in the economic policy of the Western countries. In trying to counter the coronavirus pandemic, they started supporting both individuals and certain industries. We also did this but to a reasonable extent. They didn’t listen to reason. They printed enormous amounts of money and started shoveling food out of the world market, putting the poorest countries in a very difficult position. With the onset of the special military operation, they decided to blame Russia for everything, for their own blunders. We had nothing to do with this problem. And, of course, by using sanctions as an instrument of pressure, an instrument of competitive struggle, they aggravated the situation in global food and energy markets. It is not us that made the situation worse. They brought about these results by their actions. Meanwhile, the so-called grain deal was justified by the desire to support the poorest countries. I have said many times that of all the food, primarily grain, exported from the territory of Ukraine, only a little more than 3 percent went to the poorest countries – a bit over 3 percent. Everything else went to a well-fed and prosperous Europe. But ironically, many European countries started turning down Ukrainian grain. They started discriminating against Ukrainian grain – not us. As for the conditions under which we agreed to ensure the safe export of Ukrainian grain, yes, there were clauses in this agreement with the United Nations, according to which Russian interests had to be taken into account as well. This concerns logistics, insurance, the movement of money related to the payment for our products, and many other points. Nothing – I want to emphasise this – nothing was done at all. There was no give and take. Not a single clause related to what is in the interests of the Russian Federation has been fulfilled. Despite this, we have extended this so-called deal many times of our own free will. Repeatedly. Well, This is just empty talk. Although it is one of the conditions. There is also freight. SWIFT means money transfers, yes, it matters. There are also logistics, foreign ships calling at our ports, and so on. No, I have not seen this new letter, but we are in contact with United Nations officials. I As long as it takes to fulfil the promises made to us.
Ms Valentina Matviyenko Matviyenko Valentina Chairwoman of the Council of Federation , Ms Natalya Kochanova, friends, I am happy to welcome the participants and organisers of the 10 th Forum of Russian and Belarusian Regions in the hospitable capital of Bashkiria. To begin with, I would like to note that regional cooperation, which is growing stronger with every year, is the heart of truly allied relations between Russia and Belarus, of integration processes in the Union State. For more than ten years, our forum has been bringing together regional governors, lawmakers, heads of ministries and departments, representatives of business and expert communities, public and youth organisations of our two countries – all those who are developing friendly, neighbourly ties between Russia and Belarus. Almost all regions of the Russian Federation and their Belarusian counterparts maintain mutually beneficial and multifaceted contacts. Our Far East, Siberia, the Republic of Crimea and Sevastopol have intensified the development of partnerships with our Belarusian colleagues. The new regions of Russia are also interested in joining interregional interaction. As I was told, overall about a thousand Russian and Belarusian delegates came to Ufa. Either they took part in the forum’s official programme or in the events around it – the exhibition of regional economic achievements, a joint session of the Russian and Belarusian chambers of commerce and industry or the meeting of young parliamentarians. I know that you had truly useful and lively discussions on the entire range of urgent practical issues of bilateral partnership and development of the Union State. Among the issues being resolved with the direct participation of the regions I want to mention the deepening of industrial cooperation, implementation of agrarian projects, introduction of advanced information technology, expansion of humanitarian ties and tourism exchanges, and support for public organisations and volunteer movements. Importantly, you signed more than a hundred cooperation agreements and commercial contracts. This impressive result is bound to promote further economic development between Russia and Belarus and strengthen interconnectedness of our economies. I would like to emphasise that in terms of trade volume, Belarus is Russia’s number one partner among the CIS countries and fourth in the world. Last year, our trade increased by 12 percent to exceed 3 trillion rubles. This positive trend continues to strengthen; in January-April of this year, mutual trade increased by another 11 percent. Numbers that high became possible due to, among other things, the active integration work in the regions. This work is aimed at lifting trade and administrative barriers, alignment of legislation of the two countries in the economic, social sphere, fulfilling, in a coordinated manner, the goals of national development and improving the well-being of people. I would like to remind you that 28 industry-specific programmes approved by the Supreme State Council of the Union State have been consistently implemented since 2021. Their main purpose is to create a level playing field for the economic entities in our countries. Common financial and energy markets and transport space are being built in a concerted effort; coordinated macroeconomic, technological, industrial, agricultural and digital policies are being pursued. Russia and Belarus are doing their best to ensure the stable operation of their economies and their immunity to the negative impact of sanctions. It goes without saying that achieving success in this matter would be difficult, or even unrealistic, without a close region-to-region partnership. Amid unfavourable external circumstances with some Western countries refusing to cooperate and unfriendly countries closing their markets to us, Russian and Belarusian regions are doing much to expand mutual trade, which helps preserve production facilities and reorient supplies to consumers in our two countries. Thus, exports to Russia from Belarus increased by over 70 billion rubles, because machinery and equipment, food, chemical, textile and other products that were previously sent to the West are now being sent to Russia. With Russia’s support, a number of Belarusian regions started implementing new import-substitution investment projects worth 80 billion rubles in industries such as mechanical engineering, machine tools, microelectronics and a number of others. A full cycle of competitive high-tech manufacturing is being created. Joint regional initiatives aimed at increasing cooperation in research, education and cultural spheres, and at preserving common historical memory and combating the falsification of history deserve special mention. In particular, the first Forum of Historians of Russia and Belarus was held in Moscow in early June. I would like to mention in this context the Memory Train project advanced by the upper chambers of the two countries’ parliaments. Schoolchildren from Russia and Belarus, other EAEU member states, Armenia and Kyrgyzstan travelled by train to visit memorial places of the Great Patriotic War and took part in the forum's youth programme in Ufa. I would like to thank the Forum’s organisers and participants for their work, which, to reiterate, will further strengthen strategic cooperation between Russia and Belarus. I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate our Belarusian friends on the occasion of your state holiday – Independence Day, which will be marked on July 3. We wish the Belarusian people happiness, peace and prosperity. Thank you for your attention.
Mr Shokhin, friends, ladies and gentlemen. I am delighted to welcome you all. I will try to answer the questions posed by our moderator. I would like to note that the forum we are attending today will now be convened regularly; my colleagues and I agreed on this in Bishkek in December last year. The wide scope of participants present here today – officials, business leaders, experts, representatives of public organisations from the EAEU and from other countries – shows that the role of our association is increasing, growing, and this speaks of the rapidly changing world that Mr Shokhin mentioned, the successful development of Eurasian integration and the growing interest that our organisation creates abroad. I think the theme of the forum – Eurasian Integration in a Multipolar World – is highly relevant. It spans the most important issues the Eurasian Union is addressing today when it comes to creating favourable conditions for the EAEU economies and the development of cooperation throughout Eurasia. We can see truly deep and fundamental changes taking place on the global stage. More and more states are taking a course towards strengthening national sovereignty, pursuing an independent domestic and foreign policy, and adhering to their own development model. All of them are in favour of building a new, more equitable architecture of international economic relations, striving to constructively influence world processes, expand the network of partnerships based on mutual benefit, respect and consideration of each other's interests. It sounds a little trivial, or like a cliché, but it is actually happening, in practice, in reality, in real life. It is important that the majority of participants in international communication agree with these approaches – I would like to emphasise this. And these are not empty words; they really do agree with this approach. We actively cooperate with major international associations, such as BRICS, the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation, the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, the Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf, as well as multilateral organisations in Latin America and Africa. And our country, the Russian Federation, which is hosting this forum today, certainly shares this approach, and all our partners in the Eurasian Economic Union also do. We are genuinely interested in honest, productive and pragmatic interaction. Everyone – and I want to emphasise this, directly answering our moderator's question – everyone who acts, thinks and does otherwise is damaging the global economy, in fact, shooting themselves in the foot, and the foot of those who are still forced to obey their dictates. And, by the way, in this sense, they are only strengthening the downward trend of their own development, and this is something that international experts, including experts from the United States, have been bluntly writing. Their economic policy is, if anything, slowing their own growth. Like I said, they are just shooting themselves in the foot. But this is their choice; we are ready to cooperate with anyone who wants to work with us on the principles I mentioned, at any second, at any time. As it is, cooperation based on these principles is fully beneficial to the EAEU members – now I want to return to our association – the figures speak for themselves. By the way, the figures also speak about the downward trend in the development of the still powerful global economic centres. These figures are provided by international organisations, which, by the way, are under their control. They are objectively revealing these trends in the world. Also, the figures show the trends in the economies where countries stick to other principles in relations. So, We cannot produce them now, but we will. Yes, they are.
President Raisi, friends, I warmly welcome all of you at the ceremony for signing a Russian-Iranian agreement that will launch the implementation of a truly large-scale project to build the International North-South Transport Corridor . We held many discussions on the importance of building this through railway line to connect Russian ports on the Baltic Sea and other northern seas to Iranian ports in the Persian Gulf and of the Indian Ocean. I would like to remind you that the pivotal decision on Russia-Iran cooperation in that sphere was adopted during the top-level talks held in Tehran in July 2022. Today we are witnessing the beginning of the implementation of that idea, which was probably formulated for the first time 20 years ago. A 162-kilometre railway line will be built between the cities of Rasht and Astara in Iran. It may look like a short stretch, but its construction will allow us to create direct and uninterrupted railway transportation, which professionals describe as seamless, along the entire length of the North-South route. Our successful cooperation within the framework of this ambitious project is evidence of the high standards and the fruitful and mutually beneficial nature of Russia-Iran relations. Both Russia and Iran are giving priority attention to the strengthening of trade, economic and other bilateral ties, which are based on the principles of neighbourliness, mutual respect and consideration for each other’s interests. In this connection, I would like to thank you, President Raisi, and, of course, Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei for the constant attention to cooperation with our country. I would also like to use this occasion to convey our best regards to the spiritual leader of Iran. I would like to emphasise that the unique North-South transport artery, due to include the Rasht-Astara railway line, will help considerably diversify global transport flows. Traffic via the new corridor will possess substantial competitive advantages. For example, it will take about 10 days to deliver consignments from St Petersburg to Mumbai. I would like to note, as a comparison, that it takes 30 to 45 days to deliver them using traditional commercial routes. In effect, this makes it possible to slash delivery deadlines and costs. Freight traffic volumes will soar noticeably, our two states will consolidate their transit potential, Russian and Iranian goods will obtain more convenient and diverse access to external markets, in terms of specific routes. I would like to note that there are plans to use the new route for delivering foodstuffs and other agro-industrial produce to consumers in Iran, Persian Gulf and African countries. Consequently, this transport corridor will make a tangible practical contribution to facilitating global food security. This will also result in obvious economic benefits for Russia and Iran. Income, derived from freight deliveries via the North-South corridor, as well as the more intensive operation of our states’ ports, will help establish related businesses and facilitate their growth. It will be necessary to develop major logistics and production clusters. This means that jobs will be created, and the investment climate in Russian and Iranian regions will improve. The implementation of the Rasht-Astara project is only the beginning of our work to methodically expand the capacity of railway routes of the North-South transport corridor. Mr Raisi has just noted possible routes that have already started operating and that will continue to develop. Our interaction in the context of establishing this corridor that we are discussing today is taking place in close partnership with Azerbaijan. We are expecting that a cooperation agreement on expanding the railway infrastructure and freight traffic via the North-South route will be finalised in a trilateral format involving the Azerbaijani side as soon as possible. This will make it possible to create the required legal framework for successfully coordinating the actions of our three countries in the future. I would certainly like to thank all Russian and Iranian colleagues who, in a short period of time, have managed to reach agreement on all the key issues, including the provision of funding, specific terms for supplying goods and services, and regulations for operating the future Rasht-Astara railway. I would also like to express confidence that construction of this highly strategic section of the North-South route will proceed in the same well-coordinated and effective manner. I have no doubts on this issue. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you. Ebrahim Raisi : I would like to say that the Iranian Ambassador to Russia, who will be working in Moscow, Mr Jalali, will pay close attention to this project with the assistance of his Russian colleagues. I would like this project to materialise as quickly as possible. Mr Novak follows a hands-on approach, and I hope that he makes sure that this is also the case for this project. Mr President, thank you so much for contributing to this project in person. This is indeed a major endeavour for the region, for global transport infrastructure as a whole, and for our countries too. Thank you for your support. I was very happy to see you and hope that we will maintain our contacts, both remotely and face-to-face. All the best to you, and until next time. Thank you very much. Once again, my congratulations to everyone.
Mr President, Mr Grossi, Director General of the International Atomic Energy Agency, my dear friends. I would like to sincerely welcome you, everyone here at this nuclear fuel delivery ceremony at the Akkuyu NPP. I would like to congratulate you on a new, important stage in the implementation of one of the largest joint projects in the history of Russian-Turkish relations, as it was just called – the construction of Turkiye’s first nuclear power plant. I would like to emphasise that this is a flagship project. It brings mutual economic benefits to both partners and certainly promotes our versatile bilateral cooperation that rests of the principles of friendship, mutual respect and consideration for each other’s interests. This is exactly what I discussed with President Erdogan during our detailed telephone conversation, which just ended. Naturally, in addition to cooperation in peaceful nuclear energy, we also discussed other current issues in the development of the entire range of bilateral relations. A number of fundamentally important agreements have been reached. The main thing – I will not go into detail – is that we agreed to further strengthen cooperation in the economy and trade, to encourage the progressive growth of bilateral trade, which exceeded $62 billion in 2022, and also to encourage the inflow of reciprocal investment, and to help the business structures of the two countries enter each other’s markets. Russia will certainly continue to reliably provide Turkiye with energy resources, primarily natural gas. By the way, once Akkuyu is operating at full capacity, we will, of course, probably supply less natural gas to Turkiye. This is an expensive commodity today, and prices will only go up, but Turkey will enjoy the advantage of a country with its own nuclear energy, and as is well-known, nuclear energy is one of the least expensive sources of energy. Moreover, we are determined to increase cooperation in supplying this type of fuel – again, I mean gas – to third countries. This is also what the proposal to create a regional gas hub in Turkiye to supply natural gas to interested foreign buyers at market prices is aimed at. The president of Turkiye and I have agreed to expand cooperation in agriculture, establish mutual trade in agricultural products and coordinate efforts on international food security. Mr Erdogan’s initiative on the free shipment of flour to the countries that need it most is also being worked out. The flour will be produced by the Turkish flour milling industry from grain supplied by the Russian side. Both sides expressed interest in further developing tourism. As you know, Turkish resorts are very popular among Russians, and last year over 5 million Russians visited Turkiye. Of course, it is important to create favourable conditions for travel between the two countries, so we have agreed to increase the number of bilateral flights. I would also like to reiterate our heartfelt sympathies to Turkiye over the major earthquake in February that caused many deaths and destruction – we talked about this on the phone. We are aware of the difficult tasks the government and the President of Turkiye have to resolve in rebuilding infrastructure, housing, and social facilities, and we are ready to continue to provide our Turkish partners with the necessary assistance and support. In particular, we have decided to deliver a large shipment of Russian building materials to Turkiye in the near future. Of course, Turkiye's construction sector is very well developed, and so is its building materials industry, but this situation is special. I would remind you that Russia was one of the first to send rescue teams and medical personnel to Turkiye, and has deployed a mobile multidisciplinary hospital in one of the most affected regions, where over 13,000 people have already been treated. And this help, I assure you, Before pronouncing these key words, “go ahead,” I want to recall something again and address President Erdogan. Dear friend, do you remember my reaction when five years ago you set the goal to have this event coincide with the centenary of the Republic of Turkiye? I said this was unlikely because it was a very complicated and responsible process that required a lot of time to complete, as well as thoroughness and the need to consider every step on the way to this goal. Nevertheless, we managed to accomplish this with active support from you. This is really a great event. Of course, as this certificate is being transferred now, I
Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome all of you at the ceremony for presenting letters of credence here in the Kremlin. You have been entrusted with an honourable and at the same time responsible mission – to represent your states in Russia. We proceed from the premise that you will be proactively involved in dealing with all kinds of matters relating to political dialogue, trade and economic ties, cultural and humanitarian exchanges, and people-to-people contacts. The situation in the world is currently challenging, with many disagreements that seem irreconcilable at times and often hinder normal productive cooperation between states. However, I would like to hope that the activity of your embassies will help to foster cooperation between our countries. You may rest assured that all of your initiatives and proposals that are in line with this endeavour will have the support of both Russian officials and our business and public circles. I would like to emphasise that Russia is open to constructive partnership with all countries without exception. We do not intend to isolate ourselves nor do we have any prejudiced or hostile intentions towards anybody and expect that our partners will adhere to the principles of equality and mutual consideration of interests in their relations with Russia. The new Foreign Policy Concept of the Russian Federation , approved the other day, sets forth these positions. It formulates a system of views on our national interests in the complicated and rapidly changing world and describes the main goals, tasks and key areas of Russian diplomacy. The main point is that, as an independent state, Russia pursues a multi-vector foreign policy driven by its national priorities and the awareness of its special responsibility for maintaining peace and security at the global and regional levels. More than a thousand years of independent statehood, rich cultural heritage and the ability to ensure harmonious coexistence of different peoples, ethnic, religious and linguistic groups on one common territory, which has been developed over many centuries, determine Russia's special position as a unique country-civilization. Our country will continue performing a historically unique mission aimed at maintaining global balance of power and building a multipolar international system, as well as ensuring conditions for the peaceful progressive development of humanity on the basis of a unifying and constructive agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, Today’s ceremony is being attended by the heads of 17 diplomatic missions. By tradition, I will briefly describe the status of relations between Russia and each of the states you represent. Our official relations with Denmark are 530 years old. At one time, even the reigning families of the two countries were related – Maria Feodorovna, the spouse of Emperor Alexander III, was Danish by origin. In other words, our states have always been historically close to each other and behaved as good neighbours in the Baltic. Today, the Baltic Sea is literally rough. First, I will mention the acts of sabotage of the Nord Stream 1 and Nord Stream 2 gas pipelines in September 2022. Mr Ambassador, we hope Denmark will support our proposals to establish an independent international commission to investigate all the circumstances of these incidents. Russia’s cooperation with the Republic of Paraguay covers trade, economic, cultural, humanitarian and other spheres. I must note that people of Russian origin played a major role in Paraguay’s development and its institutional development, including the army. They helped develop education and research in Paraguay. We appreciate the fact that people of Russian origin benefit from favourable treatment in Paraguay when it comes to preserving their ethnic identity and national traditions and to using their native language without any restrictions or impediments. We have maintained constructive relations with Norway for many years, considering that our two countries share a border. Let me remind you, among other things, that thousands of Soviet soldiers sacrificed their lives to liberate northern Norway from the Nazis in 1944. Today, bilateral contacts have been reduced to a minimum, and interaction on the key international and regional matters has been suspended, including in the Arctic, despite its importance for both countries. This hardly meets the interests of our two peoples. The Soviet Union was the first country to recognise the Republic of Equatorial Guinea as an independent and sovereign state 55 years ago. Today, our two countries are committed to strengthening mutually beneficial cooperation in geological exploration, joint hydrocarbon extraction and processing projects, and power generation, as well as in other areas. We maintain effective contact on matters related to the situation in global energy markets, including within the OPEC Plus format as well as within the Gas Exporting Countries Forum. Russia and Oman have been consistent in developing their relations. During the recent telephone conversation with Sultan Al Said, we discussed in detail topical matters related to the multifaceted ties between Russia and Oman. The relevant Russian agencies and businesses are committed to stepping up efforts to expand bilateral trade and investment ties and undertaking major joint projects, including in agriculture and transport. Syria is a reliable partner and ally in the Arab world, as well as on the international stage. Russia helped the people of Syria in a time of need to defend their sovereignty and independence in the face of aggression by international terrorists. The recent official visit by President al-Assad al-Assad Bashar took place in an atmosphere of friendship, mutual understanding and mutual respect. We reached important agreements to further expand bilateral cooperation in various spheres. Russia immediately responded to the devastating earthquake this past February and extended a helping hand to Syria by sending experienced rescue workers and humanitarian aid to this country. We will continue doing everything we can to support our Syrian friends in their efforts to deal with the consequences of this natural disaster. Of course, we will be there to help bring back to normal the political situation in the Syrian Arab Republic and promote post-conflict recovery, as well as establish ties with neighbouring countries.
Mr President, friends, I would like to once again extend my sincere and heartfelt greetings to the President of the People's Republic of China and all our Chinese friends in Moscow. We greatly appreciate the fact that shortly after his re-election as head of the Chinese state, Comrade Xi Jinping came to Russia on a state visit. This is clear confirmation of the special nature of the Russian-Chinese partnership, which is built on mutual respect and consideration of each other's interests. Let me stress that Russia and China are bound by truly robust ties of neighbourliness, cooperation and friendship between our peoples. We are striving for the comprehensive development of bilateral relations, and we can see the same approach on the part of our Chinese friends. In this regard, I am pleased to note that the talks I had with the President of the People's Republic of China were highly productive. We have just signed statements on deepening bilateral relations for a new era and developing economic cooperation until 2030. We charted the horizons of our partnership, and set large-scale and audacious – in a positive sense – goals and objectives for the future. Friends, The progress made in bilateral ties over the past decade is impressive. It has been said more than once, Russian-Chinese relations are at their highest level in history and are, without exaggeration, exemplary. This is an example of how global powers and permanent members of the UN Security Council who have a special responsibility for maintaining stability and security on the planet should interact. The Book of Changes, which is a true compendium of the wisdom of Chinese civilisation, says, “If people have commonality in their souls, their combined strength becomes so great that it can cut the strongest metal and overcome any obstacle.” I believe that Russian-Chinese cooperation has truly limitless possibilities and potential, and we will continue to act in unison and strengthen our partnership for the benefit of the Russian and Chinese peoples. I propose a toast to the health of our friend, President of the People's Republic of China Xi Jinping, to the health of all members of the Chinese delegation, to the deepening of the Russian-Chinese comprehensive partnership and strategic interaction, and to the prosperity and well-being of the peoples of Russia and China. Ganbei! President of the People’s Republic of China Xi Jinping : Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, friends, It is a great pleasure to pay a state visit to the Russian Federation at the invitation of President Putin and to be in Russia three years after my previous visit. This gives me great joy. In this regard, I would like to express my heartfelt gratitude to you, Mr President, and my dear Russian friends for the warm welcome. Ten years ago, I made my first state visit to Russia as President of the People's Republic of China, and President Putin and I opened a new chapter in Chinese-Russian relations. Over the years, acting together in the spirit of equality, trust, mutual support, common prosperity and friendship from generation to generation, we have made every effort to strengthen our political trust, to expand cooperation, and to strengthen international cooperation and coordination. Together we have filled our relations with new content in accordance with the call of the new era. In the face of changes in the world, the times and history, China and Russia managed to maintain strategic restraint. Together, we have confidently and calmly met the challenges of the times. Our relations have become stronger, more mature and stable. We have set an example – a model – of relations between great powers. During this visit, I held candid and friendly talks with President Putin and we reached an important agreement. We have just signed a Joint Statement – a decision has been made to further deepen China-Russia relations of comprehensive strategic partnership and cooperation. Plans have been outlined for promoting our relations as we move forward. I am convinced that our joint efforts help Chinese-Russian relations grow stronger and stronger, and they will bring more and more benefits to our peoples and make an ever greater contribution to prosperity and progress of humankind. I propose a toast to the further development of Chinese-Russian relations of strategic partnership and cooperation in the new era, to prosperity, development and happiness of our peoples, to friendship between our peoples from generation to generation, to the health of President Putin and everyone present here. Ganbei ! See also Russian-Chinese talks March 21, 2023 Geography People's
Dear friends, I would like to sincerely welcome all the representatives of legislative bodies and leaders of political parties and public movements from African states in Moscow and at the international parliamentary conference. Your conference is undoubtedly important in the context of the continued development of Russia’s multifaceted cooperation with the countries of the African continent. We also consider this event a key part of the preparations for the upcoming second Russia-Africa summit scheduled to be held in St Petersburg in July. The first Russian-African summit held in October 2019 in Sochi was very productive and noticeably invigorated our ties with African states, gave a boost to business interaction and cultural and humanitarian exchanges. The partnership between Russia and African countries has gained additional momentum and is reaching a whole new level. This conference brings together representatives of most countries on the continent. Given that it is legislators who are supposed to express the will of their voters in their countries and work in the interests of their people, your arrival shows that the peoples of Africa are interested in stepping up efforts to develop multifaceted and mutually beneficial relations with Russia. I want to emphasise that our country has always and will always consider cooperation with African states a priority. It would not be an exaggeration to say that it is one of the unchanging priorities of Russia’s foreign policy. Ever since the African peoples’ heroic struggle for independence, it has been common knowledge that the Soviet Union provided significant support to the peoples of Africa in their fight against colonialism, racism and apartheid, how it helped many African countries to gain and protect their sovereignty, and consistently supported them in building their statehood, strengthening defence capabilities, laying the foundations of their national economies and workforce training. The symbol of this cooperation was the construction by Soviet experts of the Aswan Dam, the largest in Africa. And today, the Russian Federation continues its policy of providing the continent with support and assistance. The process of establishing the African Continental Free Trade Area, which began in 2021, opens up additional opportunities. In the future, this zone will become a continental market with a total GDP of more than three trillion dollars. We are in favour of actively developing ties with this new association both within the Eurasian Economic Union and bilaterally. Large Russian investment projects are being implemented in Africa, involving such domestic companies as Rosneft, Gazpromneft, RusHydro, ALROSA, Lukoil and many others. We will continue to help African countries with electricity production, which so far covers only a quarter of the continent’s needs. Today we are offering new environmentally friendly technologies, primarily in nuclear energy. Rosatom is already building a nuclear power plant in Egypt and plans to expand its involvement in the development of the national energy systems of the African continent. I would like to note that significant, in some countries 100-percent funding is provided by Russia. These are serious projects worth 15, 20 or 25 billion dollars. Russian-African cooperation in the field of high technologies is also being strengthened. For example, Russia is helping to create the ANGOSAT satellite communication and television broadcasting system in Angola. Yandex is actively introducing information services to organise the transportation of passengers by taxi and other modes of transport in African countries. At the same time, Russia is always ready to share its technologies with African countries; it offers precisely joint, diverse technological development. I would like to stress that Russia is reliably fulfilling all its obligations pertaining to the supply of food, fertilisers, fuel and other products that are critically important to the countries of Africa, helping to ensure their food and energy security. You probably know that we are ready to supply some of the resources we have frozen in European countries to countries in need free of charge, including fertilisers; and the first batches have already been sent. But unfortunately, there are obstacles here as well. Russia, guided by the needs of African countries, first and foremost, has recently agreed to extend the agreement concluded in Istanbul on the export of Ukrainian food through the Black Sea and the unblocking of Russian agricultural exports and fertiliser supplies for another 60 days. At the same time, we insist on the package nature of this deal – above all, in the interests of African and other developing countries, considering that they need large amounts of food – we insist on full compliance with Russia’s key requirements, first of all, as I said, making sure that grain and fertilisers go to the African countries in need, and not to satiated European markets and countries. Meanwhile, about 45 percent of the total volume of grain exported from Ukraine went to European countries, and only three percent went to Africa. Now, perhaps I will say two more words about this. Let me stress that only if our position is taken into account will the fair and comprehensive implementation of the Black Sea grain deal be ensured, and depending on this, we will decide on our further participation in it. For reference, I can give you the following information. From August 1, 2022, to March 20, 2023, 827 ships left Ukraine, of which only three million tonnes of grain were sent to Africa and 1.3 million to the poorest countries in Africa. As I said, almost 45 percent went to well-fed European countries, despite the fact that this whole deal was presented under the pretext of ensuring the interests of African countries. By the way, let me note that at the same time, despite all the restrictions and limitations on the export of Russian grain, almost 12 million tonnes were sent from Russia to Africa. I would also like to add that if we decide not to extend this deal after 60 days, Russia will be ready to supply the same amount that was delivered under the deal, from Russia to the African countries in great need, at no expense. Cooperation between Russia and African countries in education is at a traditionally high level. Today about 27,000 African students are studying in Russia, including 5,000 whose education is covered by the federal budget. At the same time, the annual quota for state-funded scholarships at Russian universities will be more than doubled. The project of the Russian-African Network University has entered its practical stage. We intend to step up cooperation on such important topics for Africa as medicine and healthcare, as well as ensuring biological and epidemiological safety. In order to do this, Russia is ready to transfer fully equipped mobile labs and modern medicines to Africans, and to train specialists. During the coronavirus pandemic, Russia was among the first countries to provide African states with large volumes of vaccines, test kits, personal protective equipment, and other medical and humanitarian cargoes. And, of course, Russia always lends a
Events Vladimir Putin’s Article for People’s Daily Newspaper, Russia and China: A Future-Bound Partnership March 19, 2023 23:00 I am glad to seize this opportunity to address the friendly Chinese people in one of the largest and most authoritative world media in advance of the state visit of President of the People’s Republic of China Xi Jinping Xi Jinping President of People's Republic of China to Russia. This landmark event reaffirms the special nature of the Russia-China partnership, which has always been built on mutual trust, respect for each other's sovereignty and interests. We have high expectations for the upcoming talks. We have no doubt that they will give a new powerful impetus to our bilateral cooperation in its entirety. This is also a great opportunity for me to meet with my good old friend with whom we enjoy the warmest relationship. I made acquaintance with Comrade Xi Jinping in March 2010 when he visited Moscow as head of a high-level Chinese delegation. Our first meeting was held in a very business-like and at the same time sincere and friendly atmosphere. I really like this style of communication. I know that people in China attach great importance to friendship and personal relationships. It is no coincidence that Confucius the Sage said: ”Is it not a joy to have friends coming from afar!“ In Russia we share this value and hold real friends for brothers. Our two peoples have very much in common here. Three years later, about the same days in March, we met again in the capital of Russia. It was Xi Jinping's first state visit to our country after his election as President of the People's Republic of China. The summit set the tone and dynamics of Russia-China relations for many years to come, became clear evidence of the special nature of relations between Russia and China, and outlined the trajectory for their accelerated and sustainable development. Since then, a decade has passed, which is but a fleeting moment in the history of our countries sharing a centuries-old tradition of good neighbourliness and cooperation. During this time, the world has seen many changes, often not for the better. Yet the main thing has remained unchanged: I am talking of the firm friendship between Russia and China, which is consistently growing stronger for the benefit and in the interest of our countries and peoples. The progress made in the development of bilateral ties is impressive. The Russia-China relations have reached the highest level in their history and are gaining even more strength; they surpass Cold War-time military-political alliances in their quality, with no one to constantly order and no one to constantly obey, without limitations or taboos. We have reached an unprecedented level of trust in our political dialogue, our strategic cooperation has become truly comprehensive in nature and is standing on the brink of a new era. President Xi Jinping and I have met about 40 times and have always found time and opportunity to talk in a variety of official formats as well as at no‑tie events. Our priorities include trade and economic partnership. In 2022, our bilateral trade, which had already been considerable by the time, doubled to reach USD 185 billion. This is a new record. What is more, we have every reason to believe that the USD 200 billion target, which was set by President Xi Jinping and myself, will be exceeded as early as this year instead of 2024. It is noteworthy that the share of settlements in national currencies in our mutual trade is growing, further strengthening the sovereignty of our relations. Long-term joint plans and programs are being successfully implemented. It will be no exaggeration to say that the Power of Siberia Russian-Chinese gas pipeline has become the ”deal of the century“ for its scale. The supplies of Russian oil and coal have increased significantly. Our specialists are involved in building new nuclear power units in China, while Chinese companies actively engage in LNG projects; our industrial and agricultural cooperation is growing stronger. Together we explore outer space and develop new technologies. Russia and China are powers with ancient and unique traditions and an enormous cultural heritage. Now that all pandemic-related restrictions on mutual contacts have been lifted, it is important that we increase humanitarian and tourist exchanges as soon as possible, thereby strengthening the social basis of the Russian-Chinese partnership. Interstate thematic years have a special role to play in this context. For example, the 2022/2023 biennium is dedicated to cooperation in the field of physical culture and sports, which is very popular among our citizens. Unlike some countries claiming hegemony and bringing discord to the global harmony, Russia and China are literally and figuratively building bridges. Last year our border regions were connected by two new bridge crossings over the Amur river, which has been a ”river of friendship“ since time immemorial. Amidst the ”waves and winds“ that sweep the planet, we closely cooperate in international affairs and effectively coordinate our foreign policy positions, counter common threats, and respond to current challenges, standing shoulder to shoulder as a ”rock amid a fast flowing stream.“ We actively promote democratic multilateral structures such as the SCO Background information Shanghai Cooperation Organisation  and BRICS Background information BRICS , which become more and more authoritative and influential and attract new partners and friends. The work aimed at coordinating the development of the Eurasian Economic Union Background information Eurasian Economic Union  with the One Belt, One Road Initiative also goes in this vein. Our countries, together with like-minded actors, have consistently advocated the shaping of a more just multipolar world order based on international law rather than certain ”rules“ serving the needs of the ”golden billion.“ Russia and China have consistently worked to create an equitable, open and inclusive regional and global security system that is not directed against third countries. In this regard, we note the constructive role of China's Global Security Initiative, which is in line with the Russian approaches in this area. We can feel the geopolitical landscape in the outside world change dramatically. Sticking more stubbornly than ever to its obsolete dogmata and vanishing dominance, the ”Collective West“ is gambling on the fates of entire states and peoples. The US's policy of simultaneously deterring Russia and China, as well as all those who do not bend to the American dictation, is getting ever more fierce and aggressive. The international security and cooperation architecture is being dismantled. Russia has been labelled an ”immediate threat“ and China a ”strategic competitor.“ We appreciate the well-balanced stance on the events in Ukraine adopted by the PRC, as well as its understanding of their historical background and root causes. We welcome China's readiness to make a meaningful contribution to the settlement of the crisis. Like our friends in China, we advocate for the strict compliance with the UN Charter, respect for the norms of international law, including humanitarian law. We are committed to the principle of the indivisibility of security, which is being grossly violated by the NATO bloc. We are deeply concerned over the irresponsible and outright dangerous actions that jeopardize nuclear security. We reject illegitimate unilateral sanctions, which must be lifted. Russia is open to the political and diplomatic resolution of the Ukraine crisis. It was not Russia who broke off the peace talks back in April 2022. The future of the peace process depends solely on the will to engage in a meaningful discussion taking into account current geopolitical realities. Unfortunately, the ultimatum nature of requirements placed on Russia shows that their authors are detached from these realities and lack interest in finding a solution to the situation. The crisis in Ukraine, which was provoked and is being diligently fuelled by the West, is the most striking, yet not the only, manifestation of its desire to retain its international dominance and preserve the unipolar world order. It is crystal clear that NATO is striving for a global reach of activities and seeking to penetrate the Asia-Pacific. It obvious that there are forces persistently working to split the common Eurasian space into a network of ”exclusive clubs“ and military blocs that would serve to contain our countries' development and harm their interests. This won't work. In fact, today, the Russia-China relations serve as the cornerstone of regional and global stability, driving the economic growth and securing the positive agenda in international affairs. They provide an example of harmonious and constructive cooperation between major powers. I am convinced that our friendship and partnership based on the strategic choice of the peoples of the two countries will further grow and gain strength for the well-being and prosperity of Russia and China. This visit of the President of the PRC to Russia will undoubtedly contribute to that. Geography People's Republic of China Topics Foreign policy Publication status Published in sections: News , Transcripts Publication date: March 19, 2023, 23:00 Direct link: en.kremlin.ru/d/70743 Text version
Colleagues, good afternoon. Hello. Not too cold, Mr Miller? Is it cold where you are? What is the temperature? I see. Today, we are marking the 30 th anniversary of Gazprom, a world-famous Russian company. It is one of Russia’s largest and most advanced corporations, as well as a global leader in terms of natural gas reserves, output, and supplies. I am glad to convey to you my best wishes on this anniversary and congratulate all Gazprom staff members, who are almost half a million-strong : workers, engineers, geologists, drillers, construction workers, and people representing dozens of other crafts and trades. They are all top professionals, and the whole country is proud of you. Of course, today we must send our warmest greetings and best wishes to the Russian gas industry veterans. They were the ones who laid the foundations and started developing vast and unique deposits, built entire cities and towns, and laid energy supply routes of international significance. Gazprom was incorporated as an independent company in the early 1990s, which was a difficult period for the country, and the decision to preserve it as a single and integrated whole turned out to be strategically correct. Gazprom began to grow and has been a trailblazer for other industries and entire regions with their social infrastructure ever since, promoting Russia's economic revival and growth. Today, Gazprom remains a responsible, efficient and sustainable business. Despite the frankly unfair competition and direct attempts to halt and curb its development from the outside, Gazprom is moving forward and launching new projects, including by carrying out geological prospecting surveys, producing gas and ensuring its advanced processing, as well as taking part in building the Northern Latitudinal Railway and other transport infrastructure facilities. I must also note that Gazprom creates orders for Russian high-tech businesses, including SMEs and young researchers’ teams. Of course, Gazprom has a solid track record of paying special attention to carrying out major social and humanitarian projects by supporting cultural, educational and environmental programmes, building housing and schools, helping equip hospitals and improve and develop streets, embankments and parks. For example, over 2,000 sports centres, sports grounds and school stadiums have been built across Russia as part of the Gazprom for Children programme, which I believe was launched around 2007 . Gazprom is investing substantial funds in the comprehensive development of our cities, rural areas and regions, and it is doing the right thing. I would like to thank its management, shareholders and all workers for that. It is notable that Gazprom’s perspective plans always look ahead and are designed for years and even decades to come, clearly, because of the long implementation cycle of your projects, which fully meets our national interests, and the goals and priorities of Russia as a major power and a sovereign centre of the multipolar world. Gazprom's specific goals and new projects are based on detailed expert analysis and projected changes and trends in global markets. According to those forecasts and opinions, natural gas will remain an extremely valuable natural resource, a true asset it has been for years, and the demand for it will only grow. Over the past 30 years, global natural gas consumption has almost doubled; in the next 20 years, according to expert estimates, it will add at least another 20 percent, and maybe more. In the so-called transition period, the demand will be enormous. Moreover, the Asia-Pacific region will account for more than half of projected growth, primarily the People’s Republic of China, given the high pace of its economic growth. In this context, the further development of the huge gas industry network created in the east of our country is becoming strategically important for Russia. This network includes the Yakutia and Irkutsk gas production centres, the Amur Gas Processing Plant, which is under construction, and the Power of Siberia gas pipeline, which was connected to new reserves with the launch of the Kovykta gas condensate field into commercial operation last December. Overall, as far as international cooperation and export contracts are concerned, Gazprom is facing monumental challenges, having to rearrange its logistics routes and gain a foothold in new markets. Yesterday alone, I think Mr Miller and I spent about two hours discussing all these plans with our potential partners. Let me emphasise that no matter how important international trade is, what matters the most to us is promoting our national development, providing for reliable, steady economic growth, shielding the national economy from any threats, and ensuring uninterrupted supplies for our enterprises and regions. Of course, this also includes improving the quality of life for people across all regions of Russia. I believe the expanded programme of social gasification, when connection to gas distribution networks is brought right up to the land plot boundary, is one of the most important projects for Gazprom in terms of its social responsibility. Starting this year, the programme has no expiration date. In addition, it now covers social infrastructure, educational and medical institutions, as well as housing. Let me remind you that certain categories of people can benefit from additional support. This includes families with many children and combat veterans. I am referring to subsidies people can obtain when buying services and gas equipment for their homes. We have already allocated federal funding to this effect, and I am asking you to always keep a close eye on these efforts. We planned several link-ups for this event with Gazprom sites across the country, from the Baltic Sea to Russia’s Far East. But before that, I would like to once again congratulate Gazprom workers on the company’s anniversary and thank you for your great work for the benefit of our people and our vast country and wish you every success in your undertakings. I will now pass the floor to Gazprom CEO Alexei Miller. Mr Miller, go ahead, please. Please, yes, of course. Mr Miller, colleagues, friends, We have just mentioned some facilities that Gazprom has built or is already operating, implementing them in part and drafting its development plans in general. However, this is far from all that Gazprom has and what it is doing. This is simply a small sample of its activities. But even if we return to what our colleagues were talking about now, the Bovanenkovo and Kharasavey fields, we will recall that the first one has 4.9 trillion – almost 5 trillion cubic metres of proven reserves. The corresponding figure for the second one is about 2 trillion cubic metres. These are astronomical reserves for any country. I won’t even mention at this point Grazprom’s other capacities that are simply incommensurable with any other gas-producing country in the world. These are tremendous reserves. Let’s look at the LNG plant with a project capacity of 1.5 million tonnes of LNG per year. Here’s something I noted during the report made on this facility. It has the Ladoga compressor station of domestic make. We know that in the past the company depended on foreign producers in this area of its work. Partly this dependence still remains to this day. Gazprom is a contractor for our power engineering companies. Considering our competences and education of our engineers and scientists, orders by Gazprom – the anchor contractor that will be joined by others – will promote the development of domestic power engineering. Gazprom is also playing an important role in this respect. This is just one of the areas in which we are seeing the synergy of Gazprom’s work with related companies. I mentioned related companies but synergy also exists in other areas. Our colleague reported about the Atamanskaya compressor station in the Amur Region and mentioned in passing gas supplies to the Vostochny Cosmodrome. But listen – in one instance this is a large, important project for the county and in another, it is the development of the space industry. It would seem gas supplies don’t matter that much… But they drastically change the capacities of the Vostochny Cosmodrome, its civilian component. The economics of the entire enterprise, the cosmodrome, is undergoing a dramatic change, providing Russia with additional opportunities for developing its space industry as well. It is perfectly obvious that this is being done with Gazprom’s support in this case. Or take the Amur Gas Processing Plant. Of course, as one of the world’s largest gas producers, Gazprom should do and is doing this – it is gradually developing gas processing, gas-to-chemicals in this case. It is abundantly clear that this is the future, just like the processing of other energy resources, including oil and coal. And this is also a very important, serious area of Gazprom’s development. We have cited an example of Gazprom’s major national effort to develop gas infrastructure. We have heard some analysts and economists say that this is a low-margin project that will not generate much revenue for Gazprom. Nevertheless, I believe Gazprom is doing the right thing in developing these programmes because it creates a market for the future, and material progress – supplying gas to households is definitely beneficial for the well-being of Russian families – growth of the material well-being creates future consumers in many aspects. In this regard, I would like to mention supplying the Russian economy with natural gas motor fuel for transport, households, and passenger vehicles, which is important, and I want you – the leaders of the regions will certainly hear us – to focus on this. By the same token, social programmes such as Gazprom for Children, Gazprom is running quite a few of them in Russia, serve the same purpose of strengthening the future market. Developing the public health and fitness, and recreation sector, is all about working for our people and your current and future consumers. In addition to socio-political, domestic political dimension, it clearly has an economic dimension. I would also like to thank you for the wrestling, judo and sambo facility which was most recently built under the Gazprom for Children programme. I am sure it was built to the highest standards. Mr Miller, we agreed some time ago that we would tour that facility in person. I can see that you are wearing your hat like Nightingale the Robber, which once again shows some of your personality. So, as agreed, let’s – even though you have never done any of these sports – let’s step on the tatami in this excellent facility together with the children who are practising there today and see how it works. As for the Lakhta Centre, the construction of which you spearheaded, I believe it will be put to good use by Gazprom and everyone who lives nearby, since Lakhta Centre has much to offer potential customers. This is a 462-metre high building, the tallest in Europe. I am sure Gazprom will remain at a similarly high position too. I wish you a happy anniversary and every success. Best wishes.
Good afternoon. Please, go ahead. Maria Sidibe, Regarding good results, they could have been better. We wanted them to be better. True, some said the Russian economy would fall by 20 percent. There is a decline, indeed, but only 2.9 percent. Without a doubt, this is a big difference, and we know that those who predicted this scenario for us were sorely mistaken, while we did not make a mistake. We cannot say that we are doing fine either, however, because there is a recession. But our situation is indeed better than in many other countries in several ways. Inflation, as I mentioned, will be a little over 12 percent, around 12.2–12.3 percent for the year, whereas in Europe it will be anywhere from 17 to 20 percent, even above 20 percent. This is absolutely off the scale for the European economy. This is clearly the case, no one made these numbers up. The same applies to food and construction, and I mentioned earlier as well. Regarding the EAEU in general, the situation is stable. One of the key benchmarks, unemployment, is lower than in many other countries. What is this result based on? Well, it is based on the foundations of our economies, including the Russian economy in no small measure, and on the economic stabilisation measures that we are taking in Russia and the EAEU as a whole. Additional All news about the working visit to Kyrgyzstan December 9, 2022 Unlike some countries, we are not closing down anything. We are not breaching market economy principles. We are not imposing any restrictions on ourselves. On the contrary, we are doing our best to ensure the free flow of capital, goods and labour. This is important for us and for our EAEU partners. It has practical importance. Speaking of macroeconomic indicators, the stability of the Russian currency, the ruble, has a beneficial effect on our partners’ economies and financial systems. Say, we are talking about unemployment. No, no, it was 1,700 the day before yesterday. The gas we sell to some countries is more than 10 times cheaper. Do you understand this? Not just ten times cheaper but more than 10 times cheaper. But this is a stabilising factor for the economies of our partners – they can forecast their development, support their households and manufacturing industries. They are all developing agriculture, in part, based on the chemical industry, based on fertilisers. All are developing fertilisers very fast. This is a very efficient industry. We do not have any problems with basic products – we are exporters. We supply our partners with food as well and at quite affordable prices, wherever they need it. This is how it all looks in a package. I would say that what also matters in the final result is the desire to work together and seek solutions, even where it took us years to reach them in the course of difficult talks, but this was the result. We are still figuring it out and coming to terms. Therefore, all this taken together gives joint work a positive result. I really agree with this. You have also asked me about our next steps, right? Our next steps and development prospects. I think our prospects are very good, and our next steps are very specific. The first thing we need to do, on which we agreed, and I think this is a very important agreement – we agreed to create a mechanism to support our cooperation activities in real production, in the industrial sector. I believe this is very important for enhancing our general technological self-sufficiency, our technological sovereignty. Incidentally, this is the result of our work today. In the near future, the next couple of years or so, we must bring to life the earlier achieved agreements, such as to create a single gas market over the next two years, to identify the principles of its operation and to move on to building a common electricity market which is a critically important matter for us as well. It is hard work, and there are many questions related to coordinating our positions. You know, we had a very good discussion about this, and many things became clear. It is not Russia's position to hold the line on prices, to raise prices, or not to send something to someone. No. It is a matter of price and, above all, a matter of coordinating economic policy. Subsidising domestic prices is done at different levels, and different reasons are behind this approach, including socioeconomic and even political and historical reasons. In a given country, housing and utility prices are heavily subsidised, and these subsidies cannot be cancelled overnight due to a number of socio-political and even economic reasons. It takes time to get there. In another country, subsidies might be lower and prices are determined by the market. Let's take transport tariffs. Look, tariffs are about the same anywhere you go in Russia. They may differ slightly, but we are trying to level them. Where would the cheapest gas be? A place that is the closest to the gas field with no transport expenses. Gas should be the cheapest in the Yamalo-Nenets Autonomous Area. But Russia is a vast country, and we cannot make gas cheap in only the Yamalo-Nenets Area and insanely expensive in the Far Eastern Federal District or on our western borders. In fact, we subsidise transport costs for the end consumer. But in order for us to be able to talk about a single gas market, we must come up with common subsidising principles. Everyone understands this. This takes time, teamwork in the area of taxation, in our efforts to coordinate the rules and amend tax codes, and in the functioning of the tax system itself based on the latest technology. There are no differences or misunderstandings as to how we are supposed to get these results. All we need to do is work hard over the next two years. I think we will be able to achieve good results in many of these areas. The prospects for expanding the transport infrastructure and supply chains are excellent. Many countries are interested in the new, modern North-South and East-West corridors. Everyone, even the countries that are not members of our organisation, are willing – if we go ahead with some of the earlier announced projects – to join us in co-financing, because it is a highly lucrative project. We have lots of important and exciting projects that are of interest to all EAEU members. If there is interest, I am sure the organisation will become stronger, and these projects will get implemented. Aysel Gereikhanova, So, as far as swaps are concerned, this subject is being handled by us, in this case, it was handled by the Federal Security Service, the FSB. The FSB was agreeing on and negotiating this initially and achieved the results you have just heard about. The contacts continue; in fact, they never stopped at the level of special services. Are other swaps possible? Yes, anything is possible. This is the result of talking and searching for compromise. In this case, compromises were found. We will not refuse to continue this work in the future. Can this be considered a precedent to a dialogue with the United States on other issues? This is a special question, a specific one, frankly. We did not have the goal to move from these talks to other ones. Of course, they create a certain atmosphere, it is true; but no other issues were discussed as part of these talks. This is the first thing. Second, regarding contacts between the special services, the Foreign Intelligence Service and the CIA, from one side and the other. This was not our initiative but was initiated by the American side. President Biden suggested this, and we agreed, as you can see. We generally did not expect anything supernatural from the talks; they were held in a normal working mode. The partners agreed that these meetings would continue. Please. Pavel Zarubin, Do not worry about this. As for the length of the SMO, I was referring to the time needed for the settlement process. The SMO is running its course and everything is stable – there are no questions or problems there now. As you can see, the Defence Ministry operates transparently. It reflects everything that is taking place in reality, on the ground, in its daily reports. This is how it stands, objectively, in this regard. I have nothing to add. As for the settlement process in general – yes, it will probably be complicated and will take some time. But one way or another, the parties to this process will have to accept the realities that are taking shape on the ground. This is the first part of your question. Now the second part. I understand that everyone is worried and has always been worried since the advent of nuclear arms, and weapons of mass destruction in general. People, all of humanity, have been concerned about what will happen to the planet and to us? But look what I had in mind, I will explain some things. The United States has this theory of a preventive strike. This is the first point. Now the second point. They are developing a system for a disarming strike. What does that mean? It means striking at control centres with modern high-tech weapons to destroy the opponent’s ability to counterattack, and so on. What are these modern weapons? These are cruise missiles that we did not have at one time – we did not have land-based cruise missiles. We removed them; we scrapped them. Meanwhile, the Americans were smarter at that time when they were holding talks with the Soviet Union. They scrapped land-based missiles but retained air- and sea-based missiles that were not covered by the treaty, and we became defenceless. But now we have them and they are more modern and even more efficient. There were plans to deliver a preventive disarming strike with hypersonic weapons. The United States does not have these weapons, but we do. Regarding a disarming strike, perhaps we should think about using the achievements of our US partners and their ideas about how to ensure their own security. We are just thinking about this. No one was shy about discussing it out loud in the past. This is the first point. The United States has a theory and even practice. They have the concept of a preventive strike in their strategy and other policy documents. We do not. Our Strategy talks about a retaliatory strike. There are no secrets whatsoever. What is a retaliatory strike? That is a response strike. It is when our early warning system, the missile attack warning system, detects missiles launched towards Russian Federation territory. First, it detects the launches, and then response actions begin. We hold regular exercises of our nuclear forces. You can see them all, we are not hiding anything. We provide information under our agreements with all nuclear countries, including the United States. We inform our partners that we are conducting these exercises. Rest assured they do the exact same thing. After the early warning system receives a signal indicating a missile attack, hundreds of our missiles are launched and they cannot be stopped. But it is still a retaliatory strike. What does that mean? It means that enemy missile warheads will fall on the territory of the Russian Federation. This cannot be avoided. They will fall anyway. True, nothing will remain of the enemy, because it is impossible to intercept hundreds of missiles. And this is, without a doubt, a potent deterrent. But if a potential adversary believes it is possible to use the preventive strike theory, while we do not, this still makes us think about the threat that such ideas in the sphere of other countries’ defence pose to us. That is all I have to say about that. Yulia Bubnova, Honestly, this was a complete surprise to me. This is disappointing. Frankly speaking, I did not expect to hear this from the former Federal Chancellor because I always thought that the leaders of the Federal Republic of Germany were sincere with us. Of course, they were on Ukraine’s side and supported Ukraine, but I still thought they had always been sincerely striving for a settlement on the principles which we had agreed on and which were accepted, including in the Minsk agreements. What you have just said only shows that we did everything right by starting the special military operation. Why? Because it transpired that nobody was going to fulfil these Minsk agreements. The Ukrainian leaders also mentioned this, in the words of former President Poroshenko, who said he signed the agreements but was not going to fulfil them. But I was still hoping that other participants in this process were sincere with us. It appears they were deceiving us as well. The only purpose was to pump arms into Ukraine and get it ready for hostilities. We are seeing this, yes. Apparently, we got our bearings too late, frankly. Perhaps we should have started all this sooner, but we still simply hoped to come to terms under these Minsk peace agreements. What can one say to this? Of course, the issue of trust is at stake. Trust as such is already close to zero, but after such statements, the issue of trust is coming to the fore. How can we negotiate anything? What can we agree upon? Is it possible to come to terms with anyone, and where are the guarantees? This is, of course, a problem. But eventually we will have to come to terms all the same. I have already said many times that we are ready for these agreements, we are open. But, naturally, all this makes us wonder with whom we are dealing. Ksenia Golovanova, There are no secrets here. We started with the first question. Your colleague asked this question and kind of indicated that, overall, the EAEU countries’ economies are in satisfactory condition, stable at least, and prospects are good. This is the way it really is. This means that these economies will grow. They are growing now and will continue to grow in the future. In turn, it means that energy consumption will increase. There are shortages already. And energy-producing, gas-producing countries like Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan are looking forward, and this is the right approach. They have excellent economic teams and stable political leadership. The presidents of both countries are looking forward and running the numbers to see how much they will need in the coming years. They are coming to the conclusion that they will need higher volumes and more resources, keeping in mind, among other things, their export obligations from previous years. They have export obligations to deal with. All of that – their own higher consumption needs and their export obligations that they need to honour – have us sitting down again and comparing notes to see how it works out and if we can do more. Can we do it or not? Yes, we can. But there are many questions. For example, northern Kazakhstan gets its gas from Orenburg. However, gas goes to Orenburg, to our gas processing plant, from Karachaganak, a gas field in Kazakhstan. It goes to Kazakhstan at domestic Russian prices. In order to pump gas to Uzbekistan, we need to use a gas transport system that was built back in the Soviet Union. It needs to be repaired since it is in a state of disrepair. There are two gas lines. One is not used at all, and the second is used to transport gas from Karachaganak to Orenburg. So, if this gas is to be sent to Uzbekistan, should it be forwarded directly or reversed and then sent? This is a big question. No, I do not see such factors today. Like I said, 300,000 men were called up as part of the mobilisation – let me say it again – 150,000 have been deployed with the force. Of those who are in the force, only half, or a little more, 77,000 are deployed with combat units. The other half are deployed with the second or third tier. Actually, they act as territorial troops, or engage in additional training. Another 150,000 are not even in the force yet. They are at the training grounds and training bases. What additional mobilisation? Half of all mobilised recruits can be considered a combat reserve. So, there is no reason to talk about an additional mobilisation. This is out of question as we speak. Alexander Yunashev, You know, strange as it may seem, we also discussed this. We will have to see how it goes, how it develops. Perhaps it would make sense to replace some formations with others – in this case, they will still have the status of participants in hostilities. Some people may be still undergoing training say, in the Far East or Siberia, whereas others may be fighting in the zone of hostilities. These are different things. But it is necessary to look at all this. The Defence Ministry and the General Staff are thinking about this and will make a decision. At any rate, as for mobilisation, I think I have given an exhaustive answer to this question. Let’s have another question, please. Don Courter, Borrell is a big, major figure of our time, a political figure of our time, as Brezhnev was once described. But people in Africa know what Russia is and where Russia is located. Africans know the role that Russia played in their liberation from colonialism. There is practically not a single African country that would not receive our support at one time – political, information, economic and sometimes military support. We have very stable, very kind and friendly relations with African nations and they continue. If the people you were talking about knew where Africa is located and what state African nations are in, they would not have prevented the supplies of Russian food and Russian fertilisers from reaching the African continent. Eventually, the harvest in African countries and the saving of hundreds of thousands of people in Africa from starvation depend on these supplies. Our fertilisers have not yet even left some seaports of European countries. Meanwhile, as I have said many times, we are ready to provide them to African countries free of charge. Partially this process got underway under pressure from the UN Secretary-General but the problem has not been resolved up to this day. Let certain EU politicians stop chatting about their love of African nations and start giving direct support to them. Instead of buying up food on global markets using the money they are printing, instead of raising prices, fuelling inflation and putting African nations into a desperate situation, they should at least not get in Russia’s way and let it carry out this productive and intensive work that is needed by African nations and is designed to support the people who need it. Let’s call it a day. Thank you very much. Yes, Andrei, all right, go ahead. This will be the closing question. Yes, I know. Who is he? What did he get? Go ahead. You cannot trust anyone. Only I can be trusted. We work with the Defence Ministry on a regular basis. I discuss these issues with them almost every day. I have to say that there were problems indeed, and, judging by what you are saying, they probably persist. Although I am assured that they are becoming fewer and are no longer as acute as they were at the beginning of this process, especially related to mobilisation. But from what you have said, and I think you are right, the problems are far from being completely resolved. But it is just a matter of time. The most acute ones, I think, have already been resolved, but some time is needed, of course, to speed up the relevant production sectors. And the Ministry of Industry is now actively involved in this. Go ahead, but this will be the last one. Not just to me – but the country in general. I just wanted, first of all, to support the builders and thank them, because they did so much within a short timeframe, and their work is of good quality. Of course, I wanted to see if this was true or not, because it is one thing, what is written on the official reports, that the work has been finished, and quite another when people who are not involved in it, provide you with information. It is important to have this information. The same goes in this case, I mean the bridge, as I wanted to see it with my own eyes, how everything was done in reality. And indeed, in terms of quality and technology, the project was done at a top technical and technological level. I said earlier – I do not know if people could hear me because of the strong wind – that two lanes in one direction were in good condition, but the builders still insisted that some centimetres or even millimetres of those lanes be improved, so they are up to standard, 100 percent. They will be doing this part as a preventive measure, so to say, and they obtained approval from me. They will now close two lanes or have already closed them, I do not know, and will be improving them to bring them up to standards, so they are 100 percent perfect. There is another bridge above, as we actually have three bridges there, the other is the railway bridge; one track is fully functional and there is no tonnage limit on freight traffic. But the other track was largely damaged by fire because the train was standing and a fuel tank car was punctured, the fire caused the damage so it needs to be put in order. They promise to finish repairing the highway sections in March; first, they planned to finish it later, but I was told they had promised to finish all work by the end of March. As for the track on the railway bridge, they promise to finish repairs by mid-summer. True, first, they said this would happen by late autumn, but then they committed to finish it by mid-summer. I believe it will be done sometime next summer. Their work is of good quality. I have no doubt that everything will be done on schedule. Thank you very much. All the best to you. See also Meeting of the Supreme Eurasian Economic Council December 9, 2022
Mr President, Cuban guests, Muscovites, friends, We have gathered here, on a square named after Fidel Castro, to unveil a monument to this outstanding statesman and political figure, the founder of the modern Cuban state. Fidel Castro dedicated his life to the selfless struggle to advance the ideas of goodness, peace and justice, for the freedom of oppressed peoples, for a decent life for ordinary people and social equality. He is rightfully considered one of the most colourful and charismatic leaders of the turbulent and dramatic 20 th century, a truly legendary person and a symbol of an era of national liberation movements, the collapse of the colonial system and the creation of new independent states in Latin America and Africa. Fidel and his associates have selflessly defended the sovereignty of their native country; they did not allow it to be broken by the intervention of mercenaries, sanctions, financial or economic embargo, or attempts at external isolation; they upheld Cuba’s right to its own development model in accordance with national rather than externally imposed values; and made sure that the world takes into account Cuba’s opinion and respects its interests. For many generations of our fellow citizens, the image of the Comandante has always been shrouded in romantic glory, courage and victories. The lyrics of the well-known Soviet song Cuba, My Love! reflected our sincere and enthusiastic feelings not only for the Island of Freedom and the entire Cuban people, but also directly for Fidel, whose strength, energy and unbending will attracted and still attract people like a magnet. Friends, I was lucky enough to meet with Fidel Castro on several occasions, and I still remember many hours of conversations with him, especially our last conversation in July 2014. He talked about the things that were surprisingly consonant with the time –- the time of the development of a multipolar world – saying that independence and dignity cannot be put up for sale and that every nation is entitled to develop as it sees fit and to choose its own path, and that a truly fair world has no place for dictatorship, plunder or neo-colonialism. His encyclopaedic knowledge, deep understanding of the underlying causes of events, sharpness of mind, and accuracy of assessments were striking. Fidel was a true friend of our country and often came to see us. In 1963, he travelled around almost the entire Soviet Union. He was always a welcome guest in Moscow and loved it very much. As Fidel said, he was willing to come to Russia any time, summer or winter, with or without snow. Our country has always supported the freedom-loving Cuban people and the leadership of the Republic. And we know it is a mutual feeling. Cuba has been, is and, I am sure, will always be our consistent strategic partner and ally in international affairs. Friends, The Russian-Cuban friendship that was bequeathed to us by Fidel Castro is the common legacy of our peoples. Mr President, you represent the new generation of Cuban leaders and you are making an enormous contribution to promoting friendly and trust-based relations between our countries. We will join efforts in order to strengthen our alliance and to defend the great values of freedom, equality and justice. Thank you for the attention. President of Cuba Miguel Diaz-Canel Bermudez Diaz-Canel Bermudez Miguel President of the Republic of Cuba : Dear Comrade Vladimir Putin, President of the Russian Federation, my dear Russian friends, It is a great honour for me to take part in unveiling the monument to the historical leader of the Cuban Revolution, Supreme Commander-in-Chief Fidel Castro Ruz. First, I would like to thank President of the Russian Federation Vladimir Putin for his participation in this commemorative event. He had the honour of being personally acquainted with Fidel and of having hours-long conversations with him during his visits to Cuba in December 2000 and in July 2014. I am also grateful to the members of the Russian Military-Historical Society, the Moscow City Duma and particularly, to sculptor Alexei Chebanenko for this noble initiative. My dear friends, The personality of the Supreme Commander-in-Chief was very closely linked to the friendship between our peoples and governments that was tempered over 60 years. Fidel understood very well the underlying nature of the fraternal relations between our countries. He always had warm relations with Soviet and Russian leaders. He knew personally and admired Yuri Gagarin and Valentina Tereshkova, the great Russian cosmonauts. He always admired the tremendous spirit of the Soviet people during the Great Patriotic War, the heroism and ability for self-sacrifice in saving humanity from fascism. Fidel first came to the Soviet Union in 1963. In over 40 years, he visited the most important cities, including Leningrad – a city that he deeply respected for its resistance to the epic 900-day siege by the Nazi army. This historical visit enhanced the love of your fraternal country by our historical leader and the budding friendship between our peoples that has existed up to this day. In subsequent years, Fidel travelled to the USSR many times. He last visited in November 1987 to attend the 70 th anniversary of the Great October Socialist Revolution. Till the end of his life, Fidel followed with special interest everything that was happening in this great country. He paid special attention to every event and piece of news linked with Russia and attached special importance to its role in world politics. In this context, we can say that this monument also recognises the friendship between Russia and Cuba, which has a very firm foundation. My dear friends, comrades, I would like to recall with deep gratitude the words written by President Vladimir Putin on behalf of the Russian people when Fidel died six years ago. I quote, “Fidel Castro was a true friend of Russia, in whom we could believe. He made a tremendous contribution to the establishment and development of Russian-Cuban relations and their close strategic cooperation in all areas.” Today, we can confirm that the new generations of Cubans that hold public and government positions in the country are committed to continuing our friendship and solidarity with the Russian Federation. Speaking on behalf of the Cuban people and government, I can speak of our commitment to the behest of Raul and Fidel as regards the friendship they were building for so many years with the USSR and later the Russian Federation. The connections between Russia and Cuba are indestructible. Fidel laid the foundation for these relations and developed them further. Our task is to preserve and continue them. Russia knows that it can continue to rely on Cuba. Eternal glory to the historical leader of the Cuban Revolution, Supreme Commander-in-Chief Fidel Castro Ruz! Thank you very much. Geography Cuba Topics Foreign policy Persons Diaz-
Good evening, Let’s take your questions. Please go ahead. We asked ourselves this question back when this organisation was being created 30 years ago, I think, and it appeared back then there was plenty of all sorts of other tools that could be used to compare notes on security issues. However, we realised today that this is not so, and these additional tools are needed and must be improved, especially for the Asian region. This entity is the brainchild of First President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev. He is no longer active in this capacity, but the entity is alive, and Kazakhstan has proposed creating an organisation on its basis. As a reminder, the OSCE was formed along the same lines and started out as a forum for discussing European security issues and then became an organisation. I think this is the right thing to do, since there are many threats in Europe and Asia alike. I will not go over all of them, I am sure you know all about it. So, in my opinion, it is an important and timely decision, and all the participants supported it. I think they are even more interested now. Of course, our trade is growing and much faster than in previous years, for understandable reasons. I do not think I need to elaborate. We are developing new logistics chains, many of which are running across this region. The regional countries are interested in this. And lastly, new opportunities for cooperation and for developing our own competencies are being created. We are looking for ways to revive some enterprises which were shut down recently; we can do this on a fundamentally new technological basis, including in Central Asia, which would be interesting both for us and for our partners. This is the first point. The second is that we need to decide how to do this, for example, in the financial sphere and services, transitioning to national currencies, the volumes involved, what exactly should be done, and how to organise the transfer of financial information. There are many specific issues which our Central Asian partners are certainly interested in. That is quite apart from security issues, the fight against terrorism and, for example, the situation in Afghanistan. Yes, we discuss this at the CSTO and CIS platforms, but these issues concern above all the Central Asian republics. Therefore, we could use a separate format, which we need, in principle. And lastly, as I said, we are working with our partners and allies at the bilateral level, but when we meet in such formats as today, five countries plus Russia, we do not look at the issues on the agenda from a bilateral angle but, as I noted today, try to look for projects and spheres of cooperation that will be of interest to the region as a whole. The issue may be the same, but we look at it from a different angle that may be of interest to all of us. This is the next point. And one more thing. For example, our colleague from Turkmenistan said that cooperation with Russia in a multilateral, Central Asian format was very important for Central Asian states, which have no access to the world’s oceans, and allows us to look together for such opportunities and channels. We are developing several projects with our other partners, which are interesting for us as well. It is very important, interesting and appropriate now to bring all this together. No. As you can see, all this is going on, all the formats are working, which means they are important, and our allies, our partners want to use these formats in their work. Nothing has changed in this regard. However, we are paying attention to events related to Azerbaijan-Armenia relations and to what is going on between Tajikistan and Kyrgyzstan. We are well aware of all that. Of course, our partners are interested and concerned about the future of Russia-Ukraine relations. True, this is being discussed, and there is nothing unusual about it. I brief our partners in detail about it and make our point of view clear to them. But this does not in any way affect the nature, the quality, or the depth of Russia's relations with these countries. Please go ahead. It was a constructive meeting. No doubt, when relations are in a fairly hot phase, finding common ground is not easy, but I think we succeeded in doing so. At least, we have agreed that no effort would be spared to prevent the resumption of hostilities. This is my first point. Second, importantly, the parties will take every step necessary to have the refugees return home. Third, and also significant – without claiming to play any mediating role , we agreed that both sides would make the corresponding documents and their vision for resolving this issue available to us, and we will assess their proposals and use the documents at our disposal to find a solution, which could be the basis for reaching potential agreements. What I am saying is that Moscow might have access to more reliable information about the borders between the republics than the republics themselves. We will go over these documents and the maps, and then look for a solution in cooperation with our colleagues. So, the meeting was useful overall. Please go ahead. This is the choice of the people who legally came to power in a particular country, Germany in this case. They must decide themselves what is more important for them – to fulfil allied commitments, as they understand them, or to ensure the interests of their own people, their national interests. Judging by what you said, in this case the Federal Republic has prioritised its allied commitments in NATO. Is this right or wrong? I think this is a mistake, and businesses, the economy, and the people of Germany are paying for it because it has adverse economic consequences for the Eurozone in general and the Federal Republic in particular. However, it looks like hardly anyone takes into account its interests or else the Nord Stream 1 and Nord Stream 2 would not have been detonated. Although they were not operational, they still provided an element of reliability – they could be switched on in the worst-case scenario. But this is no longer possible. Although there is a line that still seems to be in working condition, as I said in Moscow, but a decision has not been made and is unlikely to be made. But this is no longer up to us. This is up to our partners. As for the ideas that guide the leaders of different states, this is their own business. I have set forth my version. I think it explains the gist of the problem. Go ahead. We are aware that President Erdogan has played a fairly significant role in resolving a number of issues, including exchanges. He was personally involved in this work, and, as we know, got results. We are grateful to him, because we got our servicemen, including officers, back. This is my first point. Second, he was deeply involved in organising grain exports from Ukraine. Unfortunately, this grain is not being shipped – or small amounts of it are shipped – to the poorest countries under the UN programme, but that is a different matter. I discussed it with him as well. During our talks yesterday he was in favour of structuring the grain flows and shipping grain primarily to the poorest countries. This is up to the UN Secretary-General. I am aware that he is working on it, but not everything is working out for him, either. The United Arab Emirates are also willing to act as mediators, and the President of the United Arab Emirates is working on it, including humanitarian issues, exchanges, and so on, and not without success, for which we are also grateful to him. India and China always talk about the importance of dialogue and peaceful resolution. We are aware of their stance. They are our close allies and partners, and we respect their position. But we are also aware of Kiev’s position – they kept saying they wanted talks, and even sort of asked for them, but have now passed an official decision that bans such talks. Well, what is there to discuss? As you may be aware, speaking at the Kremlin when announcing the decision on the constituent entities of the Russian Federation, I said we are open. We have always said that we are open. We reached certain agreements in Istanbul, after all. These agreements were almost initialled. But as soon as our troops withdrew from Kiev, the Kiev authorities lost any interest in the talks. That is all there is to it. If they ever get ready for this, we will welcome it. At that point, the mediation efforts of all the stakeholders may come in handy. Please go ahead. You will have to ask him if he is ready for such talks as well. To be honest, I do not see the need for it. By and large, there is no platform for any kind of negotiations at this point. The question of my going there is not decided yet. But Russia will certainly take part in this work, and we will think over the format of it. At this stage there is no question of direct talks with any of the G20 members, since we are in constant contact with some of them, as you know. We just talked about the position of Turkiye and the Turkish President – Turkiye is also part of the G20, and we are in constant contact with him, as well as with some of our colleagues. We have not discussed such issues with the President of the United States. Please. The Federal Security Service has stated that this so-called cargo, or more precisely, explosives, was probably sent by sea from Odessa, but it is not clear whether this was done with the help of grain carriers or not. This is a question, the answer to which is not yet available. But if it turns out that humanitarian corridors for grain shipments to the poorest countries were used to commit terrorist acts, then of course this would raise a big question about the continued functioning of that corridor. But so far we have no such information. You know what, I think we are constantly indignant at attempts to shut down Russian culture, to cancel it, and it is completely absurd. To begin with, the Defence Ministry initially planned a smaller figure – not 300,000 people. This is the first point. Second, nothing is planned additionally. The Defence Ministry has made no proposals about this and I don’t see any need for it in the foreseeable future. As for the mess I mentioned, it is linked with old forms of accounting, which have not been updated for decades. The quality of these papers became clear only with the start of mobilisation. This database is now being updated and modernised and will be as accurate as possible. So I think the quality of this work will be improved as well. That said I must note that this work is already ending. Now there are already 222,000 mobilised troops out of 300,000 people. I believe all mobilisation activities will be completed in about two weeks. Go ahead, please. I would prefer to base my assessment on the law, not emotion. It is necessary in each case to consider the legal implications of the actions of a specific citizen. Some left because they are scared of something, others because they want to evade mobilisation and still others for some other considerations. It is necessary to give a legal assessment in each case and take action with regard to each individual on these grounds alone. I believe it is impossible to act in any other way. Go ahead, please. With regard to mobilisation, I can only reiterate what I said earlier. The line of contact is 1,100 kilometres long, and it is practically impossible to hold it exclusively with the contract soldiers, especially since they are taking part in offensive operations. This is the reason for mobilisation. This is my first point. Second, all citizens who are called up as part of the mobilisation must undergo training which is provided as follows. I said that 222,000 people are now in the army, more precisely, the formation units, where they receive initial training that lasts from five to 10 days. Then, depending on the military specialty, they go to combat units for training for a period of five to 15 days. The next step is training with troops involved in combat operations, where they undergo joint combat training. If you look at it from the time the mobilisation started to the present day, in principle, looking at the minimum values, in general, this is possible. And it is not only possible. Like I said, 222,000 are in the formation troops, 33,000 mobilised men are already in the units, and 16,000 men are in the units involved in combat missions. Since questions like you just asked still arise, I will instruct the Security Council additionally. There are former Defence Ministry employees with extensive experience on the Council. They are good at what they do; they are high-level specialists. I will instruct them to inspect the training process for mobilised citizens. With regard to security, after the terrorist attack on the Crimean Bridge, the relevant services were tasked with stepping up monitoring in order to ensure the safety of critical infrastructure, and corresponding measures must be taken at all of them, including energy facilities of different levels and classes and at transport facilities. Our country is vast, so let us hope that the efforts in this area are effective. So far, we have managed successfully. Please go ahead. No. I want everyone to understand. What is happening today is unpleasant, putting it mildly, but we would have got the same thing a bit later but in worse conditions for us, that’s all. So my actions were the right ones at the right time. Whether Ukraine will exist? But we did not set ourselves the aim of destroying Ukraine. Certainly not. Meanwhile, at one point they suddenly switched off water in Crimea where 2.5 million people live, 2.4 million to be precise. Troops had to enter and switch on the water for Crimea. This is simply an example of the logic behind our actions. If they had not taken this action there would have been no counteraction. The bridge was blown up. Now we have to think hard. How important is it for the Russian Federation to ensure that Crimea is connected by land? Do you understand? There is no need for massive strikes now. Other tasks are on the agenda because I think out of the 29 targets the Defence Ministry had planned to hit, only seven were not. But now they are dealing with them gradually. There is no need for massive strikes, at least for now. As for the future, we’ll see. Is that all? Now the final question. You know this is a question of concepts, of legal technicalities. What does Ukraine’s defeat mean? It is open to interpretation. The fact that Crimea became a Russian region in 2014, is that defeat or what? It is necessary to understand what it is. But in any event, sending troops into direct engagement, a direct clash with the Russian Army is a very dangerous step that could lead to a global catastrophe. I hope those who talk about this will be smart enough not to undertake such dangerous steps. Thank you very much. All the best.
Thank you very much. First of all, of course, I would like to thank all of you for supporting our initiative and gathering in this format. It is clear that the relations between our countries are built in different areas and various formats. We maintain constant contact, direct contact, communication via bilateral channels, within the CIS, the EAEU, the CSTO and several other organisations. We can always ask for each other’s advice and address certain problems. However, I believe that this new format will also be useful and add value. I am confident that the new format of our communication will be useful and bring us an additional benefit. See also All news about the working visit to Kazakhstan October 13 − 14, 2022 We are prompted to invigorate all mechanisms of interaction between us by the deteriorating global situation and the challenging regional situation, too, but primarily by the external attempts to prevent the development of our integration in many areas and upset our historically close ties and political, economic and humanitarian cooperation. We believe there is a real demand now for the well-coordinated joint steps of our countries to build up our allied relations and strategic partnership and enhance the sustainability of our economies. For its part, Russia is open to strengthening versatile cooperation with our Central Asian friends, in particular, to participating in creating new production-and-marketing chains, to ensuring the failsafe functioning of joint ventures and building alternative logistics routes. We are also interested in your countries joining Russia’s large-scale initiatives on import substitution and other programmes and projects. I am sure this will benefit the development of all our economies and the acquisition of new competences. Overall, Russia’s interaction with the Central Asian Five is very satisfactory. Thus, in the past five years, Russia’s trade with these countries has doubled to reach US$37.1 billion. In the first six months, our trade increased by another 16 percent. It reached US$37 billion in five years and grew by 16 percent in the first half of the year alone. Russia is the leading investor in the Central Asian economies. Overall, our direct investment is about US$5 billion. The process of reconfiguring financial settlement mechanisms has been launched, eliminating the unnecessary involvement of Western companies and operators. Instead of SWIFT, we are switching to the proven Russian financial messaging system for contract settlements, similar to the national systems of your countries, and expanding the practice of opening direct correspondent accounts between lending institutions. Cooperation between Russia and the five countries in the field of energy security is intensifying. We are talking about partnerships in creating generating capacity, building nuclear power plants, and introducing digital technologies. In particular, our country is ready to provide practical assistance to restore the unified energy system of Central Asia, which will certainly increase energy security for all countries in the region. Meaningful opportunities are opening up in such areas as expanding oil transportation routes, as well as joint development of energy reserves in the Caspian Sea, providing affordable and clean natural gas vehicle fuel, building or expanding pipelines, and increasing the sale and shipping of coal to Asian markets. Russia's reorientation of exports and imports is stimulating the development of transport corridors throughout the Greater Eurasia region. The key task is to develop new trans-
Mr President Kassym-Jomart Tokayev, Colleagues, Over the past 30 years, the Conference on Interaction and Confidence-Building Measures in Asia has been discussing vital aspects of strengthening security and stability in the vast Asian region. Today we have met against the backdrop of serious changes in global politics and economy. The world is becoming truly multipolar, and Asia, where new centres of power are growing, is playing a major, if not the key role in this. Asian countries are drivers of global economic growth. Integration associations, such as the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation, the Association of Southeast Asian Nations and the Eurasian Economic Union, are working dynamically and effectively here. See also All news about the working visit to Kazakhstan October 13 − 14, 2022 Russia is actively contributing to these processes. We are committed to the development and prosperity of Asia, to creating an open trade and investment cooperation space and broadening and deepening cooperation ties in various economic sectors towards this end. I would like to remind you that Russia was a founding country of the CICA Business Council, which has held many successful conferences and seminars on the entire range of economic issues over the past years. We are working hard together with other Asian counties to create a system of equal and indivisible security based on the universally recognised principles of international law and the UN Charter. Our Conference and other regional associations are dealing with many pressing issues, notably the increased volatility of global prices of energy, food, fertilisers, raw materials and other essential goods, which is affecting the quality of life in industrialised and developing countries. Moreover, this is creating a real threat of hunger and large-scale social upheavals, especially in the poorest countries. For its part, Russia is doing its best to supply crucial products to the countries that need them. We call for lifting the artificial and illegal obstacles, which are hindering the revitalisation of the normal operation of global supply chains, in order to be able to address pressing tasks in the field of food security. Like many of our Asian partners, we believe that it is necessary to start a revision of the operating principles of the global financial system, which for decades allowed the self-proclaimed “golden billion,” which has been using capital and technology flows to its sole advantage, to largely live at others’ expense. As a priority measure, we believe it is necessary to more actively use national currencies in mutual settlements. These measures would definitely help strengthen the financial sovereignty of our states, develop domestic capital markets and deepen regional economic integration. It is extremely important to take further action, in cooperation with other regional forums and organisations, to resolve any crises and conflicts occurring in Asia, strengthen cooperation between our states on countering terrorism, expose and neutralise extremist groups, block their financial sources, fight drug trafficking and prevent the propaganda of radical ideas. Unfortunately, Afghanistan remains one of the biggest security challenges for our region, as my colleagues have already said today. After more than 20 years of US and NATO military presence and their failing policy, that country turned out to be unable to independently deal with the terrorist threat, as indicated by the endless series of violent terrorist attacks, including the blast outside the Russian Embassy in Kabul on September 5. To normalise the situation in Afghanistan, naturally, we have to work together to help it with economic recovery. But first of all, we strongly insist on compensating for the damage caused to the Afghan people during the years of occupation and unblocking the unlawfully frozen Afghan funds. In the context of a settlement in Afghanistan, it would be helpful to use the resources of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation and its regional anti-terrorist body. We also invite all Asian countries to engage in closer cooperation with the International Counter-Terrorist Data Bank, established at Russia's initiative. I would like to point out that Russia and China have drafted a joint statement for this summit on cooperation in ICT security. We hope that the joint statement will be approved. Finally, I would like to mention the importance of strengthening multilateral cooperation between the participating countries on social, cultural and humanitarian issues and in promoting the inter-civilisational dialogue and contacts between peoples. In particular, volunteer movements are among those that require support. The acute stage of the Covid-19 pandemic that we have passed demonstrated the helpful role of volunteer and youth groups in supporting the population. Russia has accumulated extensive and useful experience in these matters and we are ready to share it with interested countries. Overall, I would like to note with satisfaction that our joint work within this Conference on Mutual Interaction and Confidence Building is making progress. Russia will further develop multi-dimensional cooperation with all represented parties. We support the initiatives of the Kazakh presidency. Thank you.
Good afternoon, friends, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to welcome all the participants and guests of Russian Energy Week, a respected and recognised platform for dialogue on key global energy topics. Such direct and transparent communication is essential now, when the global economy in general, the fuel and energy sector are in the middle of, let me be direct, an acute crisis due to unstable price dynamics of energy resources, an imbalance in supply and demand, and the overtly subversive actions of individual market participants, who are guided solely by their own geopolitical ambitions, resort to outright discrimination in the market, and if that does not work, they simply destroy the infrastructure of their competitors. In this case, I am of course talking about the sabotage of the Nord Stream 1 and Nord Stream 2 gas pipelines. There is no doubt that this is an act of international terrorism, the purpose of which is to undermine the energy security of the entire continent.
Friends, The subject of this address is the situation in Donbass and the course of the special military operation to liberate it from the neo-Nazi regime, which seized power in Ukraine in 2014 as the result of an armed state coup. Today I am addressing you – all citizens of our country, people of different generations, ages and ethnicities, the people of our great Motherland, all who are united by the great historical Russia, soldiers, officers and volunteers who are fighting on the frontline and doing their combat duty, our brothers and sisters in the Donetsk and Lugansk people’s republics, Kherson and Zaporozhye regions and other areas that have been liberated from the neo-Nazi regime. The issue concerns the necessary, imperative measures to protect the sovereignty, security and territorial integrity of Russia and support the desire and will of our compatriots to choose their future independently, and the aggressive policy of some Western elites, who are doing their utmost to preserve their domination and with this aim in view are trying to block and suppress any sovereign and independent development centres in order to continue to aggressively force their will and pseudo-values on other countries and nations. See also Executive Order on partial mobilisation in the Russian Federation September 21, 2022 The goal of that part of the West is to weaken, divide and ultimately destroy our country. They are saying openly now that in 1991 they managed to split up the Soviet Union and now is the time to do the same to Russia, which must be divided into numerous regions that would be at deadly feud with each other. They devised these plans long ago. They encouraged groups of international terrorists in the Caucasus and moved NATO’s offensive infrastructure close to our borders. They used indiscriminate Russophobia as a weapon, including by nurturing the hatred of Russia for decades, primarily in Ukraine, which was designed to become an anti-Russia bridgehead. They turned the Ukrainian people into cannon fodder and pushed them into a war with Russia, which they unleashed back in 2014. They used the army against civilians and organised a genocide, blockade and terror against those who refused to recognise the government that was created in Ukraine as the result of a state coup. After the Kiev regime publicly refused to settle the issue of Donbass peacefully and went as far as to announce its ambition to possess nuclear weapons, it became clear that a new offensive in Donbass – there were two of them before – was inevitable, and that it would be inevitably followed by an attack on Russia’s Crimea, that is, on Russia. In this connection, the decision to start a pre-emptive military operation was necessary and the only option. The main goal of this operation, which is to liberate the whole of Donbass, remains unaltered. The Lugansk People’s Republic has been liberated from the neo-Nazis almost completely. Fighting in the Donetsk People’s Republic continues. Over the previous eight years, the Kiev occupation regime created a deeply echeloned line of permanent defences. A head-on attack against them would have led to heavy losses, which is why our units, as well as the forces of the Donbass republics, are acting competently and systematically, using military equipment and saving lives, moving step by step to liberate Donbass, purge cities and towns of the neo-Nazis, and help the people whom the Kiev regime turned into hostages and human shields. As you know, professional military personnel serving under contract are taking part in the special military operation. Fighting side by side with them are volunteer units – people of different ethnicities, professions and ages who are real patriots. They answered the call of their hearts to rise up in defence of Russia and Donbass. In this connection, I have already issued instructions for the Government and the Defence Ministry to determine the legal status of volunteers and personnel of the military units of the Donetsk and Lugansk people’s republics. It must be the same as the status of military professionals of the Russian army, including material, medical and social benefits. Special attention must be given to organising the supply of military and other equipment for volunteer units and Donbass people’s militia. While acting to attain the main goals of defending Donbass in accordance with the plans and decisions of the Defence Ministry and the General Staff, our troops have liberated considerable areas in the Kherson and Zaporozhye regions and a number of other areas. This has created a protracted line of contact that is over 1,000 kilometres long. This is what I would like to make public for the first time today. After the start of the special military operation, in particular after the Istanbul talks, Kiev representatives voiced quite a positive response to our proposals. These proposals concerned above all ensuring Russia’s security and interests. But a peaceful settlement obviously did not suit the West, which is why, after certain compromises were coordinated, Kiev was actually ordered to wreck all these agreements. More weapons were pumped into Ukraine. The Kiev regime brought into play new groups of foreign mercenaries and nationalists, military units trained according to NATO standards and receiving orders from Western advisers. At the same time, the regime of reprisals throughout Ukraine against their own citizens, established immediately after the armed coup in 2014, was harshly intensified. The policy of intimidation, terror and violence is taking on increasingly mass-scale, horrific and barbaric forms. I want to stress the following. We know that the majority of people living in the territories liberated from the neo-Nazis, and these are primarily the historical lands of Novorossiya, do not want to live under the yoke of the neo-Nazi regime. People in the Zaporozhye and Kherson regions, in Lugansk and Donetsk saw and are seeing now the atrocities perpetrated by the neo-Nazis in the occupied areas of the Kharkov region. The descendants of Banderites and members of Nazi punitive expeditions are killing, torturing and imprisoning people; they are settling scores, beating up, and committing outrages on peaceful civilians. There were over 7.5 million people living in the Donetsk and Lugansk people’s republics and in the Zaporozhye and Kherson regions before the outbreak of hostilities. Many of them were forced to become refugees and leave their homes. Those who have stayed – they number about five million – are now exposed to artillery and missile attacks launched by the neo-Nazi militants, who fire at hospitals and schools and stage terrorist attacks against peaceful civilians. We cannot, we have no moral right to let our kin and kith be torn to pieces by butchers; we cannot but respond to their sincere striving to decide their destiny on their own. The parliaments of the Donbass people’s republics and the military-civilian administrations of the Kherson and Zaporozhye regions have adopted decisions to hold referendums on the future of their territories and have appealed to Russia to support this. I would like to emphasise that we will do everything necessary to create safe conditions for these referendums so that people can express their will. And we will support the choice of future made by the majority of people in the Donetsk and Lugansk people’s republics and the Zaporozhye and Kherson regions. Friends, Today our armed forces, as I have mentioned, are fighting on the line of contact that is over 1,000 kilometres long, fighting not only against neo-Nazi units but actually the entire military machine of the collective West. In this situation, I consider it necessary to take the following decision, which is fully adequate to the threats we are facing. More precisely, I find it necessary to support the proposal of the Defence Ministry and the General Staff on partial mobilisation in the Russian Federation to defend our Motherland and its sovereignty and territorial integrity, and to ensure the safety of our people and people in the liberated territories. As I have said, we are talking about partial mobilisation. In other words, only military reservists, primarily those who served in the armed forces and have specific military occupational specialties and corresponding experience, will be called up. Before being sent to their units, those called up for active duty will undergo mandatory additional military training based on the experience of the special military operation. I have already signed Executive Order on partial mobilisation. In accordance with legislation, the houses of the Federal Assembly – the Federation Council and the State Duma – will be officially notified about this in writing today. The mobilisation will begin today, September 21. I am instructing the heads of the regions to provide the necessary assistance to the work of military recruitment offices. I would like to point out that the citizens of Russia called up in accordance with the mobilisation order will have the status, payments and all social benefits of military personnel serving under contract. Additionally, the Executive Order on partial mobilisation also stipulates additional measures for the fulfilment of the state defence order. The heads of defence industry enterprises will be directly responsible for attaining the goals of increasing the production of weapons and military equipment and using additional production facilities for this purpose. At the same time, the Government must address without any delay all aspects of material, resource and financial support for our defence enterprises. Friends, The West has gone too far in its aggressive anti-Russia policy, making endless threats to our country and people. Some irresponsible Western politicians are doing more than just speak about their plans to organise the delivery of long-range offensive weapons to Ukraine, which could be used to deliver strikes at Crimea and other Russian regions. Such terrorist attacks, including with the use of Western weapons, are being delivered at border areas in the Belgorod and Kursk regions. NATO is conducting reconnaissance through Russia’s southern regions in real time and with the use of modern systems, aircraft, vessels, satellites and strategic drones. Washington, London and Brussels are openly encouraging Kiev to move the hostilities to our territory. They openly say that Russia must be defeated on the battlefield by any means, and subsequently deprived of political, economic, cultural and any other sovereignty and ransacked. They have even resorted to the nuclear blackmail. I am referring not only to the Western-encouraged shelling of the Zaporozhye Nuclear Power Plant, which poses a threat of a nuclear disaster, but also to the statements made by some high-ranking representatives of the leading NATO countries on the possibility and admissibility of using weapons of mass destruction – nuclear weapons – against Russia. I would like to remind those who make such statements regarding Russia that our country has different types of weapons as well, and some of them are more modern than the weapons NATO countries have. In the event of a threat to the territorial integrity of our country and to defend Russia and our people, we will certainly make use of all weapon systems available to us. This is not a bluff. The citizens of Russia can rest assured that the territorial integrity of our Motherland, our independence and freedom will be defended – I repeat – by all the systems available to us. Those who are using nuclear blackmail against us should know that the wind rose can turn around. It is our historical tradition and the destiny of our nation to stop those who are keen on global domination and threaten to split up and enslave our Motherland. Rest assured that we will do it this time as well. I believe in your support.
"Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I am happy to welcome you at the presentation of the letters of credence at the Kremlin and wholeheartedly congratulate you on the official beginning of your diplomatic mission. You have been entrusted with an important and responsible mission: to promote the development of multifaceted relations between the countries you
represent and Russia. We believe that you will be working to expand political
dialogue, trade and economic ties and to deepen our cultural and humanitarian
exchanges and contacts between our people.
We are sincerely interested in the successful work of the embassies you
will head in these key spheres. The initiatives and proposals you may advance
to strengthen mutual understanding among our nations will certainly receive the support of the Russian authorities, the public and the business communities of our country.
Colleagues,
You are working at a time when a radical transformation of the entire
architecture of international relations has accelerated, when the development
of a multipolar and more democratic and fair world order has entered its active
phase.
The fact that the movement towards a multipolar world is the main
strategic development line in global politics was reaffirmed at the SCO summit
held in Samarkand a few days ago.
The SCO is a major regional organisation of the countries where more
than a half of the world’s population live and where 25 percent of global GDP
is created. The countries which firmly believe that the modern world must be
polycentric and based on the generally recognised norms of international law
and the principles of equal and indivisible security with the central
coordinating role of the UN are members of the organisation I have mentioned,
the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation.
This approach is gaining more and more supporters, as proven by the growing interest in the SCO’s activities from many countries and interstate
associations. Let me remind you that the issue of Iran obtaining the status of a full SCO member was resolved in Samarkand, the membership application from
Belarus was approved, and eight more states became dialogue partners.
Regrettably, objective movement towards multipolarity has come up
against resistance from those who are trying to preserve their dominant role in international affairs and to control everything – Latin America, Europe, Asia
and Africa. I must say that the global leader managed quite well for a long
time, but this cannot continue forever; it is impossible. I am talking about this outside the context of developments
in Ukraine. In order to strengthen their position, illegitimate sanctions are
introduced, and pressure is exerted in all areas, including, of course, on Russia.
However, those who do this can see that their actions have negative consequences
for themselves.
Unfortunately, this policy impacts innocent states as well, above all
developing and the poorest countries. They were the first to suffer from the Western restrictions on the supply of Russian energy, food and fertiliser to world
markets. In this context, it is absolutely cynical that even our offer to transfer 300,000 tonnes of Russian fertiliser blocked in European ports due to sanctions free of charge, I want to emphasise this, to countries in need still
remains unanswered. Well, it is understandable that they do not want to let Russian
companies earn money, but we want to give it away for free, at least give it
away for free to countries in need; but no, nothing is being done, no answer.
As for Russia, it will not deviate from its sovereign course. As a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council, we intend to further
promote the unifying interstate agenda, contribute to the search for effective
responses to the numerous challenges and threats of our time, and help settle
acute regional conflicts. It is from these positions that Russia will speak at the opening of the 77
th
session of the UN General Assembly.
Ladies and gentlemen,
Today’s ceremony is attended by heads of twenty-four diplomatic missions.
By tradition, I will briefly characterise the relations between Russia and every
state you represent.
Russia and Uruguay have long-standing ties of friendship. In December we will mark the 165
th
anniversary
of Russian-Uruguayan diplomatic relations, and we stand for the further
development of cooperation in the economic, scientific, educational, cultural,
humanitarian and other fields.
By the way, one of Uruguayan cities, San Javier, is inhabited mainly by descendants of Russian immigrants. We appreciate that people with Russian roots
living there and elsewhere have the opportunity to preserve their ethnic and cultural identity and national traditions and speak their native language.
Russia’s cooperation with the Algerian People’s Democratic Republic is that
of strategic partnership. In March we marked the 60
th
anniversary of diplomatic relations, and invited President of Algeria Abdelmadjid Tebboune to visit
Russia.
Algeria is Russia’s second largest trading partner in Africa in terms of trade volume. And trade and economic cooperation continues to develop actively,
as well as our ties in other areas, including military-technical and cultural ties.
Russia supports Algeria’s balanced policy in regional and international
affairs, and we will continue to work together to strengthen stability in the Middle East, North Africa and the Sahara-Sahel region.
We are consistently building up our friendly relations with Egypt in accordance with the fundamental Agreement on Comprehensive Partnership and Strategic Cooperation signed in 2018. We view Egypt as one of our most important
partners in Africa and the Arab world. We are in constant contact with
President Sisi.
Our intergovernmental commission is working actively, promoting the growth of trade, which increased by more than 40 percent in the first six
months of this year. Large joint projects are being implemented, such as the construction of the El Dabaa nuclear power plant and the creation of a Russian
industrial zone near the Suez Canal. There is a regular political dialogue and close foreign policy coordination.
In the presence of the distinguished ambassadors of Algeria and Egypt,
as well as their colleagues from other African countries, I would like to remind
you that the second Russia-Africa summit is scheduled to be held in St
Petersburg in 2023. We hope that together we will be able to give a new impetus
to the comprehensive development of mutually beneficial cooperation between
Russia and the African states.
Just the other day, the leaders of Russia, Mongolia and China held a traditional trilateral meeting as part of the SCO summit in Samarkand. This
format is very important, not only given the geographical location of our
countries, but also the interest in implementing major joint projects,
including in the transport and energy sectors.
Russia and Mongolia are advancing their traditional bilateral ties as well. Their official diplomatic relations go back 101 years. In early
September, during talks with Prime Minister of Mongolia Oyun-Erdene, who took
part in the Eastern Economic Forum, we reached a number of agreements aimed at expanding Russian-Mongolian economic cooperation in a number of areas.
As for Russian-Portuguese relations, they have been diverse and mutually
beneficial for many years and even centuries. Now, bilateral political and economic dialogue and cooperation have been suspended for well-known reasons.
We regret this and are confident that the situation will eventually improve.
We attach great importance to relations with Libya and are interested in a fair and lasting settlement of the protracted internal conflict in that
country. Russia will continue to support the sovereignty and territorial
integrity of Libya and help the friendly Libyan people defend their right to a decent
life, peace and security. As the internal situation in Libya stabilises, we
look forward to resuming bilateral cooperation in various fields.
We welcome the intention of the leadership of the Republic of Mali to form a long-term strategic partnership
with Russia and develop mutually beneficial ties.
During a detailed telephone
conversation in August with Interim President Assimi Goïta, we agreed to continue
joint efforts in countering international terrorism and religious extremism.
Russia will continue to provide the Malian
people with comprehensive assistance and support, including the supply of necessary
food, fertilisers and industrial goods. We will continue to cooperate in the humanitarian
sphere, in particular, by expanding the number of places for Malian citizens
who want to study at Russian universities.
In two days, Mali will celebrate its
Independence Day. We sincerely congratulate all Malians on their national holiday.
Let me remind you that during World
War II, New Zealand, as part of the coalition of allies, fought together with
the Soviet Union against Nazism, against this misanthropic ideology. It is well
known that the current state of affairs in bilateral relations cannot be considered
satisfactory.
Armenia is our close friend and strategic ally. I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the brotherly
nation of Armenia and its leadership on tomorrow’s Independence Day. This year
marks two significant anniversaries at once – the 30
th
anniversary of diplomatic relations between our countries and the 25
th
anniversary
of the fundamental Treaty of Friendship, Cooperation and Mutual Assistance.
Russia and Armenia maintain an intensive political dialogue. This year alone, Prime Minister Nikol Pashinyan
and I met three times, most recently at the Eastern Economic Forum in Vladivostok. In November, Yerevan will host the annual summit of the Collective
Security Treaty Organisation.
Let me note that this organisation
is taking measures due to the escalation in the Armenian-Azerbaijani border
region. A special mission headed by the CSTO Secretary General was sent to the confrontation
zone and instructed to draft proposals for the Collective Security Council
based on their analysis of the state of affairs.
Let me emphasise that any conflict
situations between states close to Russia cause us serious concern. We call on everyone to show restraint, adhere strictly to the ceasefire, and firmly follow
the tripartite statements of the leaders of Russia, Azerbaijan and Armenia.
We believe that the key to resolving
territorial disputes lies in professional joint work within the bilateral Commission
for the Delimitation of the Armenian-Azerbaijani Border with advisory
assistance from Russia.
Colombia is a promising partner for Russia in Latin America, with which
we want to maintain friendly relations. We share the constructive resolve,
expressed by President Petro in his recent statement, to build up our ties in trade, energy, infrastructure, science, technology, education and culture.
We will continue to consistently support international efforts within
the framework of the UN Security Council towards a post-conflict settlement in Colombia in the interests of maintaining peace and national accord in that
country and ensuring regional security and stability.
We will continue to strengthen traditionally friendly relations with the United Republic of Tanzania, including in promising spheres such as peaceful
nuclear research, transport, energy and tourism.
We welcome the efforts of Tanzania to settle problems on the African
continent. We will cooperate on a broad range of current issues on the regional
and international agenda.
The history of Russian-Philippine relations includes implemented
projects in various spheres. The conditions are in place for boosting our trade
and cooperation in energy, space exploration, information technology,
agriculture and tourism. We are willing to work together with our partners and hope that the new leadership of the Philippines share this approach.
We are convinced that the development of cooperation between Russia and Moldova, which is historically close to us, on the principles of pragmatism and mutual benefit meets the fundamental interests of our nations. Russia has
always acted as the guarantor of the Transnistrian settlement. Incidentally, our
actions in the sphere of energy security strictly comply with all our
agreements that are based on the proposals of Moldova.
Relations of strategic partnership between Russia and Serbia are based
on traditions of friendship and cultural, spiritual and historical affinity
between our fraternal people.
We regularly discuss key aspects of the further development of cooperation during face-to-face meetings and telephone conversations with
President Vucic. We appreciate the desire of our Serbian friends to pursue a balanced and independent policy on the international stage, and we will
continue to work together to deepen our political dialogue and expand interaction
in the economy, trade, science, technology, culture and education.
Acting within the framework of international law and relying above all
on UN Security Council Resolution 1244, we will continue to provide all-round
assistance to our friends in upholding the legitimate rights and interests of Serbia and protecting its state sovereignty and territorial integrity.
Senegal is one of Russia's important
African partners. Diplomatic relations were established 60 years ago, and our
countries have since been successfully interacting in politics and other areas,
including trade and the economy.
President Sall of Senegal and I held
productive talks in the city of Sochi this summer. Since Senegal chairs the African
Union, we discussed strengthening stability and security throughout the African
continent and preparations for the upcoming Russian-African summit.
Relations with the Republic of Cyprus have always relied on the cultural and spiritual commonality and the traditions of friendship between our nations. The Russian Federation has always
been and continues to be in favour of a comprehensive, just and viable
settlement of the Cyprus problem based on UN Security Council resolutions.
We are interested in expanding
cooperation with the Democratic Republic of the Congo in politics, trade and international affairs. We will continue to provide assistance to our Congolese
partners in order to improve the socioeconomic situation in that country.
As a permanent member of the UN
Security Council and a member of the Group of Friends of the Great Lakes Region,
Russia will continue to contribute to the peace process in the Democratic
Republic of the Congo and the region as a whole.
Russia's relations with Uganda, one
of Russia's reliable partners in Africa, are friendly and mutually beneficial. I am positive that our ties in the political, trade and economic fields will
continue to develop successfully, including in new promising areas, such as the use of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes.
Russia has long-standing relations
of friendship and cooperation with Sudan and maintains a meaningful dialogue at various levels, which expands business cooperation in geology and subsoil use, as well as food supplies. In August, the seventh meeting of the Russian-Sudanese
intergovernmental commission was held in Moscow. We look forward to seeing all the agreements reached there put into action.
Russia has consistently advocated
the speedy normalisation of the internal political situation in Sudan and supports the efforts of the Sudanese leadership aimed at getting there.
We stand for the further
strengthening of constructive cooperation with the State of Kuwait. We are
ready to continue close foreign policy coordination not only in Middle East
affairs, but on other international priorities as well. We see untapped potential
in expanding trade, economic and investment cooperation.
I would like to take this
opportunity to congratulate the leadership of Nepal and all Nepalese people on the national holiday celebrated today – Constitution Day – and wish you success
and prosperity. Russia's relations with Nepal have always been based on mutual
understanding and friendship. We hope this will be the case as we go forward.
Fraternal Belarus is our closest ally and strategic partner. This year,
we are marking the 30
th
anniversary of diplomatic relations. The two
countries are developing multisectoral integration cooperation and are
consistently implementing the fundamental Treaty on the Creation of the Union
State, including the 28 specific programmes that were coordinated in developing
this treaty.
We are working on major trade and investment projects aimed at further
improving the wellbeing of Russian and Belarusian citizens.
We are countering the challenges and threats to the security of our
countries together. We are actively cooperating in the CSTO, the EAEU and the CIS. As I have mentioned, a decision was made at the recent summit in Samarkand
to start the procedure for the accession of the Republic of Belarus to the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation. We will contribute to the full integration of Belarus into this authoritative regional organisation.
We have amassed substantial, diverse and mutually beneficial experience in cooperation with the Republic of Korea. Importantly, we are cooperating on the situation on the Korean Peninsula with a view to reaching a comprehensive
political and diplomatic settlement and enhancing regional security and stability.
Venezuela is a strategic partner and reliable ally in Latin America and the world as a whole. We maintain a constant dialogue with President Maduro.
The positions of Russia and Venezuela are close or identical on the main issues
on the international agenda.
We intend to continue promoting bilateral cooperation in all areas,
primarily energy, industry, infrastructure, transport, and pharmaceuticals.
We support the Venezuelan government’s efforts to stabilise the domestic
situation and protect their national sovereignty. We denounce the illegal sanctions
introduced against the republic.
Ladies and gentlemen,
I described Russia’s relations with the states you represent in a very
broad outline. I hope that with your participation these relations will develop
dynamically and be filled with new, mutually advantageous projects for the benefit of our nations and in the interests of international security and stability. I sincerely wish you success in this endeavor.
And, of course, I hope your work in Russia will be interesting for you professionally
and will help you learn more about our country, its history and culture.
Allow me to wish you all the best. Good luck.
Thank you for your attention.
Unfortunately, pandemic rates, which are on the rise again and an increase
in the number of infected people will not allow us to communicate more thoroughly
and closely, but this does not change our attitude as you start your work. I would
like to emphasise again that we wish you all the best.
Good luck, my best wishes, Thank you."
Good evening, I am listening. The most important thing always and everywhere is economic development. And the SCO, cooperation with the SCO countries, creates conditions for the development of the Russian economy, and thus for the social sphere and for resolving the tasks related to improving the living standards of our citizens. Additional All news about the visit to Uzbekistan September 15 − 16, 2022 The Shanghai Cooperation Organisation includes countries whose population, as has been said many times, comprises almost or even slightly more than half of humanity. It is 25 percent of world GDP. And, most importantly, the national economies in the region, those of the SCO member states, are developing much faster than others in the world. Now we had a separate meeting. I sat next to the Prime Minister of India at the working dinner. India’s GDP grew by 7 percent, China’s by more than 5 percent. China was in the lead for quite a time and its potential is tremendous. Our trade with these countries is growing fast. If these rates are preserved, and they are bound to be for many objective reasons, we will be one of these countries, next to them, ensuring our interests. This is what we are doing and this is the main point. There is nothing new about this. Frankly, I find it even a bit strange to hear your question because Western countries have cultivated the idea of the collapse of the Soviet Union and historical Russia and Russia as such, its nucleus. I have already cited these statements and studies by some figures in Great Britain during World War I and after it. I cited excerpts from Mr Brzezinski’s writings in which he divided the entire territory of our country into specific parts. True, later he changed his position a bit in the belief that it was better to keep Russia in opposition to China and use it as a tool to combat China. It will never happen. Let them address their own challenges as they see fit. But we are seeing how they are handling them and, most likely, they are doing harm to themselves in the process. Their tools are no good. But they have always been seeking the dissolution of our country – this is very true. It is unfortunate that at some point they decided to use Ukraine for these purposes. In effect – I am answering your question now and the conclusion suggests itself – we launched our special military operation to prevent events from taking this turn. This is what some US-led Western countries have always been seeking – to create an anti-Russia enclave and rock the boat, threaten Russia from this direction. In essence, our main goal is to prevent such developments. With regard to our restrained response, I would not say it was restrained, even though, after all, a special military operation is not just another warning, but a military operation. In the course of this, we are seeing attempts to perpetrate terrorist attacks and damage our civilian infrastructure. Indeed, we were quite restrained in our response, but that will not last forever. Recently, Russian Armed Forces delivered a couple of sensitive blows to that area. Let’s call them warning shots. If the situation continues like that, our response will be more impactful Terrorist attacks are a serious matter. In fact, it is about using terrorist methods. We see this in the killing of officials in the liberated territories, we even see attempts at perpetrating terrorist attacks in the Russian Federation, including – I am not sure if this was made public – attempts to carry out terrorist attacks near our nuclear facilities, nuclear power plants in the Russian Federation. I am not even talking about the Zaporozhye Nuclear Power Plant. We are monitoring the situation and will do our best to prevent a negative scenario from unfolding. We will respond if they fail to realise that these approaches are unacceptable. They are, in fact, no different than terrorist attacks. Wait a second. I have something to add to my answer to the first question. You said that we are seeing activity here and there. But Kiev has announced that it has launched an active counter-offensive operation. Let’s see how it unfolds and how it ends. Please go ahead. Frankly, I am not familiar with what they have come up with this time. We, in fact, started with this when we were negotiating with the incumbent Kiev authorities and, in fact, completed this negotiating process in Istanbul with the well-known Istanbul agreement, after which we withdrew our troops from Kiev in order to create the proper conditions for concluding this agreement. Instead of concluding an agreement, Kiev immediately turned down all agreements, shoved them into a box and said they would not seek any agreement with Russia, but instead would pursue victory on the battlefield. Let them try. They are just now trying to do this with the counteroffensive. Let’s see how it ends. As for security guarantees, and these were fairly tough security guarantees, they were required from our side, from the main NATO countries and regional states, including Turkiye. Overall, we agreed with this – to a large extent. There were some things that required minor adjustments but overall we agreed and these were quite serious requirements. However, the Kiev authorities shelved them. What have they come up with? I don’t know because they change their position on every issue almost every day. I must have a look. I would like to recall in this connection that before the start of the special military operation, we talked about security principles and measures on ensuring the security of Russia itself but nobody deemed it necessary to respond to this. Unfortunately. No, the plan will not be adjusted. The General Staff takes real-time decisions in the course of the operation and some are considered a key, the main goal. The main goal is to liberate the entire territory of Donbass. This work continues despite the attempts of the Ukrainian army to launch a counter-offensive. We are not stopping our offensive operations in Donbass itself. They continue. They continue at a slow pace but consistently and gradually, the Russian army is taking more and more new territory. I must emphasise that we are fighting not with a full army but only with part, with contracted forces. But, of course, this is linked with certain personnel parameters and so on. This is why we are not in a rush in this respect. But essentially, there have been no changes. The General Staff considers some objectives important and others secondary but the main task remains the same and it is being carried out. He always suggests meeting with Zelensky. He has been doing this for a long time and there is nothing bad about it. The President of Turkiye is making a substantial contribution to normalising the situation, including resolution of the food problem. The export of Ukrainian grain via Odessa is largely the result of his work. So, he is really making a tangible contribution to resolving a number of serious issues that are arising in connection with this crisis. And, of course, it is only natural that he also suggests meeting with President Zelensky, thinking that it may produce some positive result. He did not raise it at this meeting. But they refuse. The first condition is that they agree to it. But they do not want it. Mr Zelensky has publicly announced – I do not know where exactly, but he said it publicly – that he is not ready and does not want to talk to Russia. Well, if he is not ready, fine. Well, what we just said at the summit, and the things I said – did journalists hear them? Then I will have to say it again. Firstly, President Erdogan was one of the initiators of this deal, plus obviously the UN, but he was also one of the leaders to have organised the implementation of this idea. As of today – as of yesterday or the day before – 121 ships left Ukrainian ports. Only three of the 120 ships headed for the poorest countries under the UN food programme. Some 35 percent, maybe a bit more, of the grain exported from Ukraine went to European countries, to non-poor countries, and definitely not to the world’s poorest countries. And only 4.5 percent of the shipments were sent to the poorest countries under the UN programme. At our bilateral meeting, President Erdogan also raised the issue of sending the bulk of these grain exports to the poorest countries under the UN food programme, but it is not up to us. We only took on the obligation to organise the grain exports. We are doing this, but the United Nations, as well as all other participants in this process, should ultimately achieve the goal for which this process was organised. But I know that the Secretary-General – and I say this with absolute sincerity – is taking necessary efforts, he is really doing his best, but so far he has not succeeded either. The same applies to our fertiliser exports. This is something unprecedented. I would say this has been an outrageous and shameful decision by the European Commission to lift the ban on the purchase of Russian fertilisers – but solely for their countries, for EU member states. But what about the world’s poorest countries? So what about the rhetoric claiming that “all our joint efforts should be aimed at preventing famine in these poorest countries”? Is it all bluff? Is it done solely to solve their selfish tasks and problems they created themselves, with their own hands, both in the food and energy sectors? And now they are trying to resolve their self-inflicted problems at someone else’s expense. This is just outrageous. But I hope that our colleagues in the European Commission will let common sense prevail to correct this mistake – and let’s consider it a mistake, a misunderstanding – and make the right decisions. The same applies to the export of Russian fertilisers. And it would be good to consider the opportunities provided by Belarus, one of the world’s largest potassium fertiliser producers. So they have lifted sanctions on our fertilisers. The Americans were actually the first to lift them, since they are generally pragmatic people. Speaking of Ukrainian grain exports, do you know who actually exports it? It is done by American companies, which are the owners of this grain for the most part. It appeared to be that land in Ukraine was sold to US companies long ago – and they are simply exporting their own grain. That is apparently the reason behind so much talk about it. But I digress. What is important is that sanctions have been lifted on our fertiliser exports – but there are still issues as regards freight and insurance plus the existing ban on entering our ports where our fertilisers are exported from, as well as on financial transfers and settlements. They are aware of this all and keep saying this problem will be solved, but no one is actually doing anything about it. To be fair, the UN Secretary-General is taking efforts to solve these issues. He has regular contact with all participants in this process. So far, not everything has worked out. Hopefully, the Secretary-General’s negotiations will be successful. We have no doubt that we will sell our goods; we sell them now and will continue to sell them in the future as there is great demand for them in the markets. The point is that if things continue this way, they will not reach the poorest countries. You have probably heard about 300,000 tonnes of Russian fertiliser stuck in European ports; our companies are saying they are ready to provide it for free – just unblock and release it, and we will donate it to the poorest countries and to developing markets. But they are still holding it, and this is absolutely astonishing. They do not want Russia to earn money – but we are not making a profit by giving away fertiliser. I just do not get what they are doing. What is the purpose of all this? There has been so much talk about providing help to the poorest countries, but exactly the opposite is actually happening. I have the impression – and this is particularly true for European countries – that these former colonial powers are still living in the paradigm of colonial philosophy, and they are used to living at the expense of others. They still fail to get rid of this paradigm in their daily policies. But it is time to draw certain conclusions and act differently, in a more civilised manner. As strange as it may sound, there was nothing of paramount importance. This was actually a routine meeting between us. We have not met in person for a while, since my trip to Beijing for the opening of the Olympics, and we simply stated a significant increase in bilateral trade. Our trade stood at US$140 billion last year, as I mentioned earlier, and we had set the goal of reaching US$200 billion, but we considered it to be a long-term task. This year’s mutual trade is expected to reach some US$180 or even US$190 billion, meaning that the goal of US$200 billion is about to be achieved, and I believe this is the bottom line. We spoke about additional efforts required to expand bilateral trade, and what needs to be done in the current conditions to efficiently resist the illegal restrictions and all sorts of trade wars being unleashed here and there by our so-called trade partners, who apply various illegitimate restrictions. Nevertheless, we have to take action to respond to this in some way. We are aware of what is happening. We also spoke about the need to expand trade and settlements in national currencies, which are gradually increasing – not as fast as we would like it to, but there is progress, nonetheless. We talked about major projects we are implementing and mentioned infrastructure projects that would allow us to unblock growing commodity flows. These were the topics of discussion. But we also mentioned some crisis-related issues and we spoke about them in a friendly yet principled manner. Let us wind thus up, shall we? I have yet to finish speaking there. They are still waiting for me. Go ahead, please. What limits exactly? I do not understand, what about Maxim Oreshkin? Maxim Oreshkin? Under sanctions? Apparently, for his meeting with Mr Erdogan; he went to Turkiye and met with Mr Erdogan, and they immediately sanctioned him afterwards. Underage, right? This is the first time I have heard about this. I was busy with other issues; I do not know about that. I believe this sounds like schizophrenia, because imposing sanctions on underage children is simply outrageous. It seems that they have simply lost track of what they are doing. As for our Commissioner for Children’s Rights, as we know, As you can see, there are enough resources. The latest border incident has nothing to do with Nagorno- I will see, I have visited Bali, and it is a beautiful place, but this is actually not about beauty. We will see how the situation develops in our economy and other areas. I have an invitation to visit the G20 summit; the President of the hosting nation personally informed me about it when he visited Moscow, and then he telephoned me and said once again, “Bear in mind that there is certain pressure, but my stance is firm and we would like to see you at this summit.“ I will see and then we will make a decision. Russia will take part in the event. Now one concluding question, alright? There are many of you, and just one of me. Please go ahead. The Chairman of the European Commission. I have not heard anything about this either, I know nothing about it. This is yet another attempt to shift the blame onto someone else, as they say. The energy crisis in Europe did not begin with the start of Russia’s special military operation in Ukraine, in Donbass; it actually started much earlier, a year before or even earlier. As strange as it may seem, it started with the green agenda. The green agenda is definitely important, and we need to take climate action and avoid reaching the point of no return when climate change becomes irreversible, with the Earth becoming a planet in the solar system that once had the atmosphere, according to scientists, but no longer has one, and the temperatures are now +500°C. Of course, no one wants this to happen, but everything must be done carefully and gradually. To pursue momentary political considerations, they chose to completely close down the hydrocarbon energy programmes in their countries. Banks stopped extending loans, local authorities have stopped allocating land plots for future development, and implementation of plans for energy infrastructure construction was stopped as well, with huge cuts in investment in conventional energy. But this all started happening a few years back. Now, we see that prices, say, for natural gas in the United States have risen and production is growing, but not as fast as they would like it to – and the reason is that banks are afraid to issue loans. Specialists and experts are perfectly aware of this, and all these populist statements claiming that someone is to blame for this elsewhere are made only to protect themselves from their citizens’ indignation. This is what it’s done for, and this is only the first part of this farce. These are erroneous reference points in the green agenda, rushing things, and the green energy being unprepared to meet to the demand for huge energy resources to support economic and industrial growth. The economy is growing while the energy sector is shrinking. This is the first drastic mistake. The second mistake concerns natural gas. We made attempts to persuade the Europeans to focus on long-term contracts rather than solely on the market. Why? I
Mr Rahmon, Dear teachers, pupils and parents, I will begin with what my good, longtime friend, President of Tajikistan Emomali Rahmon ended his speech – I will wish all of you a happy beginning of a new academic year. By a good tradition, we – both Russia and Tajikistan – consider September 1 the Day of Knowledge and a day of celebration. Symbolically, on this day, the Republic of Tajikistan has opened five new schools with instruction in Russian, and, as was mentioned, based on Russian education programmes and standards. As was also noted, President Rahmon and I agreed to implement this large joint project in 2019, and we have kept it under permanent control since then. I remember how Mr Rahmon criticised me, out of friendship, for not paying enough attention to areas of humanitarian cooperation. Mr Rahmon, we are getting better. I believe we are attending a good, very kindly event today. In a relatively short time, modern schools that can accept almost 5,000
Ladies and gentlemen, Esteemed foreign guests, Let me welcome you to the anniversary 10 th Moscow Conference on International Security. Over the past decade, your representative forum has become a significant venue for discussing the most pressing military-political problems. Today, such an open discussion is particularly pertinent. The situation in the world is changing dynamically and the outlines of a multipolar world order are taking shape. An increasing number of countries and peoples are choosing a path of free and sovereign development based on their own distinct identity, traditions and values. These objective processes are being opposed by the Western globalist elites, who provoke chaos, fanning long-standing and new conflicts and pursuing the so-called containment policy, which in fact amounts to the subversion of any alternative, sovereign development options. Thus, they are doing all they can to keep hold onto the hegemony and power that are slipping from their hands; they are attempting to retain countries and peoples in the grip of what is essentially a neocolonial order. Their hegemony means stagnation for the rest of the world and for the entire civilisation; it means obscurantism, cancellation of culture, and neoliberal totalitarianism. They are using all expedients. The United States and its vassals grossly interfere in the internal affairs of sovereign states by staging provocations, organising coups, or inciting civil wars. By threats, blackmail, and pressure, they are trying to force independent states to submit to their will and follow rules that are alien to them. This is being done with just one aim in view, which is to preserve their domination, the centuries-old model that enables them to sponge on everything in the world. But a model of this sort can only be retained by force. This is why the collective West – the so-called collective West – is deliberately undermining the European security system and knocking together ever new military alliances. NATO is crawling east and building up its military infrastructure. Among other things, it is deploying missile defence systems and enhancing the strike capabilities of its offensive forces. This is hypocritically attributed to the need to strengthen security in Europe, but in fact quite the opposite is taking place. Moreover, the proposals on mutual security measures, which Russia put forward last December, were once again disregarded. They need conflicts to retain their hegemony. It is for this reason that they have destined the Ukrainian people to being used as cannon fodder. They have implemented the anti-Russia project and connived at the dissemination of the neo-Nazi ideology. They looked the other way when residents of Donbass were killed in their thousands and continued to pour weapons, including heavy weapons, for use by the Kiev regime, something that they persist in doing now. Under these circumstances, we have taken the decision to conduct a special military operation in Ukraine, a decision which is in full conformity with the Charter of the United Nations. It has been clearly spelled out that the aims of this operation are to ensure the security of Russia and its citizens and protect the residents of Donbass from genocide. The situation in Ukraine shows that the United States is attempting to draw out this conflict. It acts in the same way elsewhere, fomenting the conflict potential in Asia, Africa, and Latin America. As is common knowledge, the US has recently made another deliberate attempt to fuel the flames and stir up trouble in the Asia-Pacific. The US escapade towards Taiwan is not just a voyage by an irresponsible politician, but part of the purpose-oriented and deliberate US strategy designed to destabilise the situation and sow chaos in the region and the world. It is a brazen demonstration of disrespect for other countries and their own international commitments. We regard this as a thoroughly planned provocation. It is clear that by taking these actions the Western globalist elites are attempting, among other things, to divert the attention of their own citizens from pressing socioeconomic problems, such as plummeting living standards, unemployment, poverty, and deindustrialisation. They want to shift the blame for their own failures to other countries, namely Russia and China, which are defending their point of view and designing a sovereign development policy without submitting to the diktat of the supranational elites. We also see that the collective West is striving to expand its bloc-based system to the Asia-Pacific region, like it did with NATO in Europe. To this end, they are creating aggressive military-political unions such as AUKUS and others. It is obvious that it is only possible to reduce tensions in the world, overcome military-political threats and risks, improve trust between countries and ensure their sustainable development through a radical strengthening of the contemporary system of a multipolar world. I reiterate that the era of the unipolar world is becoming a thing of the past. No matter how strongly the beneficiaries of the current globalist model cling to the familiar state of affairs, it is doomed. The historic geopolitical changes are going in a totally different direction. And, of course, your conference is another important proof of the objective processes forming a multipolar world, bringing together representatives from many countries who want to discuss security issues on an equal footing, and conduct a dialogue that takes into account the interests of all parties, without exception. I want to emphasise that the multipolar world, based on international law and more just relations, opens up new opportunities for counteracting common threats, such as regional conflicts and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, terrorism and cybercrime. All these challenges are global, and therefore it would be impossible to overcome them without combining the efforts and potentials of all states. As before, Russia will actively and assertively participate in such coordinated joint efforts; together with its allies, partners and fellow thinkers, it will improve the existing mechanisms of international security and create new ones, as well as consistently strengthen the national armed forces and other security structures by providing them with advanced weapons and military equipment. Russia will secure its national interests, as well as the protection of its allies, and take other steps towards building of a more democratic world where the rights of all peoples and cultural and civilisational diversity are guaranteed. We need to restore respect for international law, for its fundamental norms and principles. And, of course, it is important to promote such universal and commonly acknowledged agencies as the United Nations and other international dialogue platforms. The UN Security Council and the General Assembly, as it was intended initially, are supposed to serve as effective tools to reduce international tensions and prevent conflicts, as well as facilitate the provision of reliable security and wellbeing of countries and peoples. In conclusion, I want to thank the conference organisers for their major preparatory work and I wish all participants substantial discussions. I am sure that the forum will continue to make a significant contribution to the strengthening of peace and stability on our planet and facilitate the development of constructive dialogue and partnership. Thank you for your attention.
What I would like to begin with is not the differences but the fundamental issues that allow us to work and continue our efforts in the trilateral format. All of us believe that it I necessary to guarantee the territorial integrity of the Syrian Arab Republic and to eliminate all sorts of terrorists, which I will not enumerate here. This is the fundamental and the most important thing, as we have pointed out again in our joint statement. I believe that this is very important. Additional All news about the working visit to Iran July 19, 2022 Yes, there are certain differences, which is obvious, but all of us support the constitutional process. Thanks to our efforts, we have brought together various conflicting parties at one negotiating platform, including the opposition and the official authorities of the Syrian Arab Republic, experts and representatives of public organisations, as well as the UN. I believe this is extremely important. This is the first point. The second. Humanitarian aid is being provided to Syria, for which there is particularly great demand today, because the sanctions imposed on Syria and the Syrian people have produced a There are no secrets here; in fact, almost everything is known. There are some subtleties; maybe I do not always have time to follow what is happening in the information field. I will tell you how I see it. First, what was the highlight of the three meetings? At each meeting, there were issues that could be considered central to a particular bilateral meeting. For example, as I said at the news conference, in my press statement, the main theme at the meeting with the Spiritual Leader of Iran was strategic issues, including developments in the region. This is natural, as it is the sphere of his activity. It was very important for me to hear his opinion, his assessment. I have to say that we have very similar views with Iran on many aspects. So, it was very important and very useful. As for my meeting with President Raisi, we discussed primarily economic matters. I would like to note that Russian-Iranian trade has grown by 40 percent over the past six months. This is a very good indicator. There are promising spheres for our cooperation, and there is a great variety of them, like infrastructure development. You may know that a deputy prime minister of the Russian Government chairs a group that is responsible for developing relations in the South Caucasus, including infrastructure projects in the South Caucasus, that is, in Azerbaijan, Armenia and Russia. A great deal can be achieved in this sphere in cooperation with Iran. As you know, the first pilot train is travelling along the North-South Railway line. It is a short route to ports in the south of Iran, which further leads to the Persian Gulf and India. There is a First of all, Gazprom has always honoured, and will continue to honour its commitments. There are no grounds at all for the attempts by our partners to shift or try to shift the blame for their own mistakes on Russia and Gazprom. What is the situation with energy deliveries? In 2020, in the first half of 2020, gas cost 100 euros per 1,000 cubic metres in Europe. The price rose to 250 euros in the first half of 2021. Today it is 1,700 euros per 1,000 cubic metres of gas. What is happening? I have spoken about this on numerous occasions, and I do not know if we should go into detail regarding the energy policies of European countries, which underrate the importance of traditional sources of energy and have put money on non-traditional energy sources. They are big experts on non-traditional relations, and they have also decided to make a bid for non-traditional energy sources like the sun and wind. Last winter was long, there wasno wind, and that did it. President Erdogan is making a lot of efforts to create the necessary conditions for normalising the situation. It was during our talks in Istanbul that we actually reached an agreement, and it only remained to initial it. But, as you know, after that, when our troops, in order to create the right conditions, withdrew from central Ukraine, from Kiev, the Kiev authorities backed off on those agreements. These were agreements that had actually been achieved. So, you see that the final result depends, of course, not on intermediaries, but on the parties’ commitment to fulfil the agreements reached. And we can see today that the Kiev authorities have no interest in that. As for Turkiye's efforts, as well as other countries’ proposals – Saudi Arabia has offered its mediation services, and the United Arab Emirates, and they do have such capabilities – we are grateful to all our friends who are interested in resolving this crisis for providing their opportunities. Even their willingness to make some contribution to this noble cause is worth a lot. We are deeply grateful for that. See also Meeting of the guarantor states of the Astana process to facilitate the Syrian settlement July 19, 2022 Statement for media following Astana format talks July 19, 2022
Ms Natalya Kochanova, Ms Valentina Matviyenko, friends, I am happy to welcome the participants and organisers of the latest Forum of Russian and Belarusian Regions. For many years now, such forums have been making their significant contribution to the comprehensive development of cooperation between our two countries and helping to establish direct ties between regional and local officials, businesspeople, and representatives of Russian and Belarusian education, science, and culture. Let me note that this year is significant for Russian-Belarusian relations. A few days ago, on June 25, we marked the 30th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic ties between Russia and Belarus. It is also symbolic that the forum events are held on the eve of Independence Day of the Republic of Belarus, which is celebrated on July 3. On this day in 1944, Minsk was liberated from Nazi occupants. This is why I would like to sincerely congratulate our Belarusian friends on the upcoming state holiday. We will always remember that our peoples fought together during the Great Patriotic War to defend freedom and independence and to bring peace to all of Europe at the cost of enormous sacrifices. And, most importantly, Russia and Belarus not only preserve, but multiply the glorious traditions of strong friendship and mutual assistance. We were able to achieve a truly exemplary level of strategic partnership and alliance, and the Union State is an example of truly mutually beneficial and equal integration. Russia and Belarus continue to consistently step up cooperation in policy, trade, the economy, culture, and the humanitarian sphere on the principles of mutual respect, support, and consideration of each other’s interests. In this sense, I would like to note that the Consulate General of the Russian Federation is opening in the city of Grodno where the Forum is taking place. I am sure that the expansion of the Russian diplomatic representation in Belarus will also contribute to the development of multifaceted interregional cooperation. Friends, Every year the most topical issues of Russian-Belarusian cooperation are discussed at the Forum. This time,
Good evening. Please go ahead. How did you like Ashgabat? The weather is hot, though. But the city has completely transformed in the past years, with new architecture. It is so beautiful. I I do not know how much they wanted to take off, to only bare their tops or also bottoms. But I think it would have been a disgusting sight anyway. I would like to quote Pushkin here. I may be wrong with the details but he said something to the effect that “You can be a sensible person and think about the beauty of your nails.” So, obviously, I We should regard it as a fact. As regards their preparations for some actions against us since 2014, this information is not new to us. It explains our decisive actions to protect our interests. They have long been looking for an external enemy, for a threat that would rally their allies. I am referring above all to the United States. Iran is not quite right for that role. Russia is much better. They see us as a chance to rally their allies in a new historical period. There is nothing new in this for us. As for Ukraine’s victory, we are aware of this as well. Ukraine conducted talks with us, sometimes better than at other times. We made certain arrangements at some point, but later they, pardon the expression, chucked them. The calls to Ukraine to continue fighting and to abandon any further negotiations reaffirm our supposition that the united West and NATO do not care for Ukraine or the interests of the Ukrainian people, and that their goal is to protect their own interests. In other words, NATO and the leading members of the alliance are using Ukraine and the Ukrainian people to reinforce their positions and their role in the world, not to reaffirm their leadership but their hegemonism in the direct meaning of the word, their imperial ambitions. This is what they want. What they have always said about their exceptionalism, the idea they tried to impress on the international community that those who are not with them are against them – all this are manifestations of the same policy. This is not new to us. I am aware of this premise, which is wrong and bears no relation to reality. Our position has always been, as I have already said during this conversation today, that NATO is a relic of the Cold War and is only being used as an instrument of US foreign policy designed to keep its client states in rein. This is its only mission. We have given them that opportunity, I understand that. They are using these arguments energetically and quite effectively to rally their so-called allies. This is the first point. On the other hand, regarding Sweden and Finland, we do not have such problems with Sweden and Finland as we have, regrettably, with Ukraine. We do not have territorial issues or disputes with them. There is nothing that could inspire our concern regarding Finland and Sweden’s accession to NATO. If they want it, they can do it. However, they should know that they did not face any threats before but, if military contingents and infrastructure are deployed in their territory now, we will have to take mirror-like actions and create the same threats for them that are created for us. This is obvious. Don’t they understand this? Everything was good between us before, but now there will be tension, which is obvious and certainly unavoidable if, as I have said, any threats are created for us. As for the assumption that we were fighting against NATO approaching us through Ukraine but now have Sweden and Finland to deal with, there is no substance behind it at all, because Finland and Sweden’s NATO membership is not at all the same as the potential membership of Ukraine. These are two different things. They know this very well, but they are promoting this idea to show that Russia has received more of what it did not want to have. No, this is entirely different, and we are aware of that. And they are aware of that. They are trying to substitute these notions, to show that Russia has not attained its goals. But this will not deceive us. If Sweden and Finland want to join NATO, let them do it. You know, there are rude jokes about stepping into unsavoury things. This is their business. Let them step into what they wish. But Ukraine is a totally different matter. They were turning Ukraine into an anti-Russia, a bridgehead for trying to stir up Russia itself. They began fighting Russian culture and the Russian language, they began to persecute those who regarded themselves part of the Russian world. There is nothing like that in Finland or Sweden; the situation is completely different. If they want to join , they are free to do it. It is a good idea. You see, the guys who are performing their combat duty there, fighting, risking their lives, some actually losing their lives, they are sacrificing themselves for the goals of this military operation. They are protecting people in Donbass, protecting Russia’s interests and ensuring the security of our country. Don’t we realise this? I Nothing has changed, of course. I talked about it in the early morning on February 24. I talked about it directly and publicly for the entire country and the world to hear. I have nothing to add. Nothing has changed. Also back then, several days into the operation, I said that the tactics may be different, the tactics proposed by the Defence Ministry and the General Staff, with respect to where the troops must move and what targets must be hit, what must be achieved when several groups entered central Ukraine and what must be achieved in Donbass. The Kiev regime had been preparing for that for a long time, since 2014. Therefore, we needed to take certain action to distract them. Yes, I am the Supreme Commander-in-Chief, but I have not graduated from the Military Academy of the General Staff. I trust professionals. They are doing what they consider necessary to attain the overall goal. I have formulated the overall goal, which is to liberate Donbass, protect its people and create conditions that will guarantee the security of Russia itself. That is all. We are working calmly and steadily. As you can see, our forces are moving forward and attaining the objectives that have been set for the particular period of the engagement. We are proceeding according to plan. We are not speaking about any deadlines. I never speak about them, because this is life, this is reality. It would be wrong to make things fit any framework, because, as I have already said, the issue concerns combat intensity, which is directly connected with possible losses. And we must think above all about saving our guys’ lives. There was no terrorist attack there nor an explosion. I was here, so I do not know the details. What I know, and what we have pointed out many times and we have shown the footage, including from drones, that weapons, MLRS, artillery guns and heavy weapons are deployed in residential districts and other places. We are not shooting at empty fields. We usually shoot at targets that have been identified. I am sure that this is what happened in this case as well. They are hiding the equipment, especially equipment delivered from the West, in hangars, at outdoor markets, at plants and in the shops where this equipment is repaired or adjusted after a long period of transportation from foreign countries. The Russian army does not strike at civilian facilities. There is no need for that. We have the possibility of identifying the targets, and we have modern long-distance precision weapons to attack them. Of course, I will find out the details when I return to Moscow. See also 6th Caspian Summit June 29, 2022
President Xi Jinping, President Ramaphosa, President Bolsonaro, Prime Minister Modi, ladies and gentlemen, To begin with, I would like to join the previous speakers in thanking President of the People's Republic of China Xi Jinping and all our Chinese friends for their proactive efforts this year to promote our strategic partnership within BRICS. The countries that form this group have been seeking to step up their cooperation on all global and regional matters. The BRICS format has been consistently increasing its prestige and international influence. This is an objective process, since the five BRICS countries, as we all know, have immense political, economic, scientific, technical and human potential. We have everything we need to work together and achieve results for ensuring global stability and security, sustained growth and prosperity, and better well-being for our people. I believe that the topic of today’s meeting, Foster High-Quality BRICS Partnership, Usher in a New Era for Global Development , is very relevant. Considering the complexity of the challenges and threats the international community is facing, and the fact that they transcend borders, we need to come up with collective solutions. BRICS can make a meaningful contribution to these efforts. We have repeatedly said that challenges like conflict settlement, the fight against terrorism and organised crime, including the criminal use of new technologies, climate change, and the spread of dangerous infections, can only be addressed through joint efforts. And, of course, it is only on the basis of honest and mutually beneficial cooperation that we can look for ways out of the critical situation that has emerged in the world economy because of the ill-conceived and selfish actions of certain states, which, by using financial mechanisms, are actually shifting their own macroeconomic policy mistakes onto the rest of the world. We are confident that today, as never before, the world needs the BRICS countries’ leadership in defining a unifying and positive course for forming a truly multipolar system of interstate relations based on the universal norms of international law and the key principles of the UN Charter. In this context, we can count on support from many states in Asia, Africa and Latin America, which are seeking to pursue an independent policy. I am sure that by tradition the present BRICS Summit will be substantive and effective, and that we will manage to hold a frank and detailed exchange of views on all the most important global and regional issues and various aspects of strategic partnership, including in the extended dialogue format of BRICS+.
President Xi Jinping, Friends, It is my pleasure to welcome representatives of governments and business communities, experts and industry professionals of the BRICS countries who have gathered at the traditional Business Forum. The Forum indeed plays a large practical role in promoting mutual trade and investment, strengthening cooperation ties and enhancing direct dialogue between business communities, not only within our Association, but also in a broader, global dimension. After all, the participants in the BRICS Business Forum represent the interests of a significant and the most dynamically developing part of the international economic community. In this regard, I would like to recall that our countries are home to more than 3 billion people, and together account for about a quarter of the global GDP, 20 per cent of trade and roughly 25 per cent of direct investments, while the total international reserves of the BRICS countries amount to about 35 per cent of world reserves. Hence the high relevance, in our opinion, of the theme of this Forum – Foster High-quality BRICS Partnership, Usher in a New Era for Global Development . It is also important that the agenda of the Forum is packed with truly crucial issues, such as ensuring sustainable growth of the global economy, preserving its openness, increasing cooperation in the field of digital economy, green growth, industry modernization, and building new transport and logistics chains. Russia supports the draft Beijing Initiative to be adopted following the Forum, which reaffirms determination of BRICS business circles to continue close joint work in all the areas mentioned. Entrepreneurs of our countries are forced to develop their business in a challenging environment when the Western partners neglect the basic principles of market economy, free trade, and inviolability of private property. They follow, in fact, an irresponsible macroeconomic course, including the launch of the “printing press” – uncontrolled emission and accumulation of unsecured debts. At the same time more and more politically motivated sanctions are continuously introduced, mechanisms of exerting pressure on competitors are further strengthened. There is intentional destruction of cooperation ties; transport and logistics chains are destroyed. And all this is contrary to common sense and basic economic logic, it undermines business interests on a global scale, negatively affecting the wellbeing of people, in effect, of all countries. As a result, the problems in the world economy become recurrent. What we see is an economic slowdown, growing unemployment, shortages in raw materials and components. Problems with ensuring global food security are getting worse; prices for grain crops and other basic agricultural products are being inflated. It is important that, despite all the problems and difficulties, BRICS business circles have been consistently enhancing mutually beneficial ties in the areas of trade, finance, and investment. For example, in the first three months of this year, trade between the Russian Federation and the BRICS countries increased by 38 per cent – and reached USD 45 billion. Contacts between Russian business circles and the business community of the BRICS countries have intensified. For example, negotiations are underway to open Indian chain stores in Russia, increase the share of Chinese cars, equipment, and hardware on our market. ­­­ In its turn, Russia’s presence in the BRICS countries is growing.­­ There has been a noticeable increase in the exports of Russian oil to China and India. ­ Agricultural cooperation is developing dynamically. Russia exports considerable amounts of fertilizers to the BRICS states. Russian IT companies are expanding their activities in India and South Africa, and our satellites enable TV broadcasting for as many as 40 million residents of Brazil.­­­ Together with BRICS partners, we are developing reliable alternative mechanisms for international settlements. The Russian Financial Messaging System is open for connection with the banks of the BRICS countries. The Russian MIR payment system is expanding its presence. ­­We are exploring the possibility of creating an international reserve currency based on the basket of BRICS currencies.­ The Russian business community, in coordination with the business communities of the BRICS states, takes prompt steps to develop the transport infrastructure. Logistics routes are readjusted, new production chains are created. I would like to stress that Russia's
Yes, indeed, we are seeing attempts to place the responsibility on Russia for developments in the global food market and the growing problems there. I must say that this is another attempt to pin the blame on someone else. But why? First, the situation with the global food market did not become worse yesterday or even with the launch of Russia’s special military operation in Donbass, in Ukraine. The situation took a downturn in February 2020 during the efforts to counter the coronavirus pandemic when the global economy was down and had to be revived. The financial and economic authorities in the United States, of all things, found nothing better than to allocate large amounts of money to support the population and certain businesses and economic sectors. We generally did almost the same thing, but I assure you that we were much more accurate, This will make a bad situation worse. The British and later the Americans – Anglo-Saxons – imposed sanctions on our fertilisers. Then, having realised what was happening, the Americans lifted their sanctions, but the Europeans did not. They are bluffing, and I will explain why. First, there are some objective things, and I will mention them now. The world produces about 800 million tonnes of grain, wheat per year. Now we are being told that Ukraine is ready to export 20 million tonnes. So, 20 million tonnes out of 800 million tonnes amounts to 2.5 percent. But if we proceed from the fact that wheat accounts for merely 20 percent of all food products in the world – and this is the case, this is not our data, it comes from the UN – this means that these 20 million tonnes of Ukrainian wheat are just 0.5 percent, practically nothing. This is the first point. The second. 20 million tonnes of Ukrainian wheat are potential exports. Today, the US official bodies also say that Ukraine could export six million tonnes of wheat. According to our Ministry of Agriculture, the figure is not six but about five million tonnes, but okay, let us assume it is six, plus it could export seven million tonnes of maize – this is the figure of our Ministry of Agriculture. We realise that this is not much. In the current agricultural year of 2021–2022, we will export 37 million and, I believe, we will raise these exports to 50 million tonnes in 2022–2023. But this is apropos, by the way. As for shipping out Ukrainian grain, we are not preventing this. There are several ways to export grain. The first one. You can ship it out via the Ukraine-controlled ports, primarily in the Black Sea – Odessa and nearby ports. We did not mine the approaches to the port – Ukraine did this. I have already said to all our colleagues many times – let them demine the ports and let the vessels loaded with grain leave. We will guarantee their peaceful passage to international waters without any problems. There are no problems at all. Go ahead. They must clear the mines and raise the ships they sunk on purpose in the Black Sea to make it difficult to enter the ports to the south of Ukraine. We are ready to do this; we will not use the demining process to initiate an attack from the sea. I have already said this. This is the first point. The second. No conditions. They are welcome. We will provide peaceful passage, guarantee safe approaches to these ports, and ensure the safe entry of foreign ships and passage through the Sea of Azov and the Black Sea in any direction. By the way, several ships are stuck in Ukrainian ports at this point. These are foreign ships, dozens of them. They are simply locked up and their crews are still being held hostage.
Colleagues, good afternoon! I am glad to welcome you all in Moscow. At the suggestion of our chairman, and today Armenia chairs the organisation, we gathered in Moscow, because this is where 30 years ago the Collective Security Treaty was signed, and 20 years ago, on the basis of this Treaty, the Collective Security Treaty Organisation was created. Friends and colleagues, I will agree with the previous speakers – indeed, in the past few decades, the Collective Security Treaty Organisation has become considerably stronger and won a well-deserved reputation as an effective regional defence structure that ensures security and stability in the Eurasian space and reliably protects the sovereignty and territorial integrity of its member countries. Importantly, cooperation in the CSTO has always been built in the spirit of true allied relations, on the principles of friendship and neighbourliness, respect and consideration of each other’s interests, mutual assistance and support. The same principles guide our cooperation in the current difficult situation. The CSTO's successful peacekeeping operation, held in Kazakhstan in January 2022 at the request of its leaders, showed the maturity of our Organisation and its real ability to adequately withstand acute challenges and threats. The contingent of the collective CSTO forces, sent into Kazakhstan for a limited period of time, prevented extremists, including those directed from abroad, from seizing power and helped to quickly stabilise the internal political situation in the republic. The use of peacekeeping forces at the request of the Kazakhstan leadership was the first operation of this kind in the CSTO’s history. The operation revealed the strong points of practical cooperation between our military structures and security services, and, at the same time, showed what we should work on to improve it. Today, we will sign a joint statement reaffirming, taking into account the experience gained, among other things, during the afore-mentioned operation, the resolve of our states to continue acting as partners in different areas of military and defence development, and building up our coordinated actions in the world arena. At the same time, it is quite logical that our current high-priority task is to further improve and streamline the work of the CSTO and its governing bodies. We will also provide the collective CSTO forces with modern weapons and equipment, we will enhance the interoperability of their troop contingents, and more effectively coordinate the joint actions of our military agencies and secret services. We streamline the relevant operations all the time during CSTO exercises, and we are set to expand such exercises. This autumn, there are plans to hold an entire series of joint CSTO exercises in Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan. I am confident that these measures will boost the combat readiness of our states’ military agencies and improve their coordination, as well as increase the entire peacekeeping potential of the CSTO. We also believe that the CSTO should continue its efforts to counter terrorism, drug trafficking and organised crime. Law enforcement agencies of our countries interact rather effectively in this field, so as to prevent the recruitment of people and to neutralise the resource potential of international terrorist organisations. Efforts to maintain biological security also require the most serious attention. For a long time, we sounded the alarm about US military biological activity in the post-Soviet space. It is common knowledge that the Pentagon has established dozens of specialised biological laboratories and centres in our common region, and that they are by no means merely providing practical medical assistance to the population of the countries where they are operating. Their main task is to collect biological materials and to analyse the spread of viruses and dangerous diseases for their own purposes. Now, during the special operation in Ukraine, documentary evidence was obtained that components of biological weapons were developed in close proximity to our borders, which violates the Biological and Toxin Weapons Convention, and possible methods and mechanisms were worked out to destabilise the epidemiological situation in the post-Soviet space. In this regard, we count on our colleagues supporting the earliest possible implementation of Russia’s initiative to operationalise the designated CSTO council. Once again, I would like to note the importance of close coordination between CSTO members in matters of foreign policy, coordinated actions at the UN and other multilateral platforms, and promotion of common approaches to the multiplying international security issues. In this context, it is important to build up cooperation with our “natural” partners in the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation and the Commonwealth of Independent States. By the way, we think it would be appropriate and correct – we will discuss this – to grant the CIS observer status in the CSTO. I would like to highlight our priority task of jointly defending the memory of Victory in the Great Patriotic War, the feat of our peoples who saved the world from Nazism at the cost of enormous and irreparable sacrifices, and to counteract any attempts to whitewash the Nazis, their accomplices and modern followers. This is extremely important particularly now, when monuments to the heroes liberators are being barbarously demolished in a number of European countries, laying flowers at memorials is forbidden, and cynical attempts are being made to rewrite history, while praising murderers and traitors and insulting their victims, thus crossing out the feats of those who selflessly fought for Victory and won the war. Unfortunately, in our neighbouring country, Ukraine, neo-Nazism has been on the rise for a long time now, to which some of our partners from the “collective West” turn a blind eye, and thus actually encourage their activities. All this goes hand-in-hand with an unprecedented surge in frenzied Russophobia in the so-called civilised and politically correct Western countries. Indeed, we hear, and I hear people say that extremists can be found anywhere, which is true. Extremists are everywhere and one way or another they are leaving their underground hideouts and make themselves known. Nowhere, though – I want to underscore this – nowhere are Nazis being glorified at the state level and not a single civilised country’s authorities are encouraging thousands of neo-Nazi torchlight processions with Nazi symbols. This is something that is not practiced anywhere. But unfortunately, this is happening in Ukraine. The expansion of the North Atlantic Alliance is a problem that, in my view, is being created in an absolutely artificial manner because it is being done in the foreign policy interests of the United States. Generally, NATO is being used, in effect, as the foreign policy tool of a single country, and it is being done persistently, adroitly, and very aggressively. All of this is aggravating the already complex international security situation. As for the expansion, including the accession of two prospective new members, Finland and Sweden, I would like to inform you, colleagues, that Russia has no problems with these states. No problems at all! In this sense, therefore, there is no direct threat to Russia in connection with NATO’s expansion to these countries. But the expansion of its military infrastructure to these territories will certainly evoke a response on our part. We will see what it will be like based on the threats that are created for us. But generally speaking, problems are being created from nothing. So, we will respond to it in a fitting manner. Apart from everything else, apart from this interminable policy of expansion, the North Atlantic Alliance is emerging beyond its geographical destination, beyond the Euro-Atlantic area. It is increasingly active in trying to manage international issues and control the international security situation. It wants to wield influence in other regions of the world, but its actual performance leaves much to be desired. This certainly demands additional attention on our part. In conclusion, I want to reiterate that Russia will continue to contribute to deepening relations of strategic alliance with all CSTO member states. We will do our best to improve and develop effective partner cooperation within the CSTO and, of course, we will support the Armenian chairmanship’s ongoing work in this area. As for Russia’s special military operation in Ukraine, we will certainly discuss this, and I will inform you in detail about its causes and the current combat effort. But, of course, we will do this behind closed doors. Thank you for your attention.
Citizens of Russia, friends, I consider it necessary today to speak again about the tragic events in Donbass and the key aspects of ensuring the security of Russia. I will begin with what I said in my address on February 21, 2022. I spoke about our biggest concerns and worries, and about the fundamental threats which irresponsible Western politicians created for Russia consistently, rudely and unceremoniously from year to year. I am referring to the eastward expansion of NATO, which is moving its military infrastructure ever closer to the Russian border. It is a fact that over the past 30 years we have been patiently trying to come to an agreement with the leading NATO countries regarding the principles of equal and indivisible security in Europe. In response to our proposals, we invariably faced either cynical deception and lies or attempts at pressure and blackmail, while the North Atlantic alliance continued to expand despite our protests and concerns. Its military machine is moving and, as I said, is approaching our very border. Why is this happening? Where did this insolent manner of talking down from the height of their exceptionalism, infallibility and all-permissiveness come from? What is the explanation for this contemptuous and disdainful attitude to our interests and absolutely legitimate demands? The answer is simple. Everything is clear and obvious. In the late 1980s, the Soviet Union grew weaker and subsequently broke apart. That experience should serve as a good lesson for us, because it has shown us that the paralysis of power and will is the first step towards complete degradation and oblivion. We lost confidence for only one moment, but it was enough to disrupt the balance of forces in the world. As a result, the old treaties and agreements are no longer effective. Entreaties and requests do not help. Anything that does not suit the dominant state, the powers that be, is denounced as archaic, obsolete and useless. At the same time, everything it regards as useful is presented as the ultimate truth and forced on others regardless of the cost, abusively and by any means available. Those who refuse to comply are subjected to strong-arm tactics. What I am saying now does not concerns only Russia, and Russia is not the only country that is worried about this. This has to do with the entire system of international relations, and sometimes even US allies. The collapse of the Soviet Union led to a redivision of the world, and the norms of international law that developed by that time – and the most important of them, the fundamental norms that were adopted following WWII and largely formalised its outcome – came in the way of those who declared themselves the winners of the Cold War. Of course, practice, international relations and the rules regulating them had to take into account the changes that took place in the world and in the balance of forces. However, this should have been done professionally, smoothly, patiently, and with due regard and respect for the interests of all states and one’s own responsibility. Instead, we saw a state of euphoria created by the feeling of absolute superiority, a kind of modern absolutism, coupled with the low cultural standards and arrogance of those who formulated and pushed through decisions that suited only themselves. The situation took a different turn. There are many examples of this. First a bloody military operation was waged against Belgrade, without the UN Security Council’s sanction but with combat aircraft and missiles used in the heart of Europe. The bombing of peaceful cities and vital infrastructure went on for several weeks. I have to recall these facts, because some Western colleagues prefer to forget them, and when we mentioned the event, they prefer to avoid speaking about international law, instead emphasising the circumstances which they interpret as they think necessary. Then came the turn of Iraq, Libya and Syria. The illegal use of military power against Libya and the distortion of all the UN Security Council decisions on Libya ruined the state, created a huge seat of international terrorism, and pushed the country towards a humanitarian catastrophe, into the vortex of a civil war, which has continued there for years. The tragedy, which was created for hundreds of thousands and even millions of people not only in Libya but in the whole region, has led to a large-scale exodus from the Middle East and North Africa to Europe. A similar fate was also prepared for Syria. The combat operations conducted by the Western coalition in that country without the Syrian government’s approval or UN Security Council’s sanction can only be defined as aggression and intervention. But the example that stands apart from the above events is, of course, the invasion of Iraq without any legal grounds. They used the pretext of allegedly reliable information available in the United States about the presence of weapons of mass destruction in Iraq. To prove that allegation, the US Secretary of State held up a vial with white power, publicly, for the whole world to see, assuring the international community that it was a chemical warfare agent created in Iraq. It later turned out that all of that was a fake and a sham, and that Iraq did not have any chemical weapons. Incredible and shocking but true. We witnessed lies made at the highest state level and voiced from the high UN rostrum. As a result we see a tremendous loss in human life, damage, destruction, and a colossal upsurge of terrorism. Overall, it appears that nearly everywhere, in many regions of the world where the United States brought its law and order, this created bloody, non-healing wounds and the curse of international terrorism and extremism. I have only mentioned the most glaring but far from only examples of disregard for international law. This array includes promises not to expand NATO eastwards even by an inch.
Deploying the Armed Forces abroad. Second, the borders of the DPR and the LPR, and the Russian Empire, right? Let us start with the Minsk agreements – the Minsk Package of Measures to settle the situation in southeastern Ukraine. That is what they are called. It is not seven but almost eight full years that we have been working on this. By “we”, I mean Russia, and yours truly was the author of these documents. Therefore, I would like to emphasise again that we were interested in seeing this package of measures implemented, because it was the result of a compromise. The leaders of the two then unrecognised republics signed these documents. Incidentally, one of them was killed in a terrorist act. He was killed by the special services of Ukraine, an agent of these services. There is no question here. This is an obvious thing, simply an outright political assassination. But what matters is that the leaders of the two republics signed these documents. We managed to broker this compromise at that time. By the way, it was not easy to do this because initially the leaders of these entities did not want to take part in the Minsk agreements and to sign their names to these documents. But a compromise was reached nonetheless, which was real progress towards achieving a settlement by peaceful means. As it was said yesterday during the Security Council meeting , over all these years, the efforts of the current Kiev authorities reduced it all to naught. So, the Minsk agreements were dead long before yesterday’s recognition of the people’s republics of Donbass. They were killed not by us and not by the representatives of these republics, but by the current Kiev authorities. In fact, yesterday's event – the recognition of these republics – was dictated precisely by the fact that the Ukrainian leadership had publicly declared that they were not going to abide by these agreements. Not going to abide by them. Well, what else can you say to that? The top officials have publicly said so. What more is there to wait for? Should we wait for this abuse of people to continue, this genocide of the almost four million people who live in these territories? It is unbearable to watch. You can see for yourself what is going on there. Well, how can you continue to put up with that? As a matter of fact, that is all there is to it. When we spoke to our European colleagues, You know, we discussed these issues with our European partners during our talks and meetings for many hours. In fact, we also spoke with the Americans about these issues more than once. I think this was not said in public, but I will say it. Naturally, …I just said this. I have just mentioned it. We take it that these words were primarily addressed to us. I want to say that we have heard them. Ever since Soviet times, Ukraine has had fairly broad nuclear competencies, they have several nuclear power units and the nuclear industry is fairly well developed, they have dedicated schools, there is everything there to solve this issue much faster than in those countries which are solving matters from scratch. I will not enumerate them, you know all about it anyway. This is number one. They only lack one thing – uranium enrichment systems. But this is a matter of technology, it is not unsolvable for Ukraine, it can be remedied quite easily. As to delivery vehicles, I think I already said in yesterday’s address that they have old Soviet-made Tochka-U missiles with a range of 100 plus kilometres, 110 kilometres. This is also not a problem in view of the competencies, say, at Yuzhmash , which used to manufacture intercontinental ballistic missiles for the Soviet Union. What is the threat to us? The appearance of tactical nuclear weapons in Ukraine is a strategic threat to us. Because the range can be extended from 110 kilometres to 300, to 500 – and that is it, Moscow will be in the strike zone. This is a strategic threat to us. And that is how we took it. We definitely must and will take it very seriously. First, I did not say our troops would enter right away, after our meeting here. That is first. Second, it is absolutely impossible to predict the detailed path of possible actions. It depends on the concrete situation that is unfolding on the ground, as they say. Regarding the question if all issues can and must be resolved by force or if it is possible to remain on the side of good. Well, why do you think that good must always be frail and helpless? I do not think that is true. I think good means being able to defend oneself. We will proceed from that. Thank you. All the best to you. See also Address by the President of the Russian Federation February 21, 2022 Signing of documents recognising Donetsk and Lugansk People’s Republics February 21, 2022
Citizens of Russia, friends, My address concerns the events in Ukraine and why this is so important for us, for Russia. Of course, my message is also addressed to our compatriots in Ukraine. The matter is very serious and needs to be discussed in depth. The situation in Donbass has reached a critical, acute stage. I am speaking to you directly today not only to explain what is happening but also to inform you of the decisions being made as well as potential further steps. I would like to emphasise again that Ukraine is not just a neighbouring country for us. It is an inalienable part of our own history, culture and spiritual space. These are our comrades, those dearest to us – not only colleagues, friends and people who once served together, but also relatives, people bound by blood, by family ties. Since time immemorial, the people living in the south-west of what has historically been Russian land have called themselves Russians and Orthodox Christians. This was the case before the 17 th century, when a portion of this territory rejoined the Russian state, and after. It seems to us that, generally speaking, we all know these facts, that this is common knowledge. Still, it is necessary to say at least a few words about the history of this issue in order to understand what is happening today, to explain the motives behind Russia’s actions and what we aim to achieve. So, I will start with the fact that modern Ukraine was entirely created by Russia or, to be more precise, by Bolshevik, Communist Russia. This process started practically right after the 1917 revolution, and Lenin and his associates did it in a way that was extremely harsh on Russia – by separating, severing what is historically Russian land. Nobody asked the millions of people living there what they thought. Then, both before and after the Great Patriotic War, Stalin incorporated in the USSR and transferred to Ukraine some lands that previously belonged to Poland, Romania and Hungary. In the process, he gave Poland part of what was traditionally German land as compensation, and in 1954, Khrushchev took Crimea away from Russia for some reason and also gave it to Ukraine. In effect, this is how the territory of modern Ukraine was formed. But now I would like to focus attention on the initial period of the USSR’s formation. I believe this is extremely important for us. I will have to approach it from a distance, so to speak. I will remind you that after the 1917 October Revolution and the subsequent Civil War, the Bolsheviks set about creating a new statehood. They had rather serious disagreements among themselves on this point. In 1922, Stalin occupied the positions of both the General Secretary of the Russian Communist Party and the People’s Commissar for Ethnic Affairs. He suggested building the country on the principles of autonomisation that is, giving the republics – the future administrative and territorial entities – broad powers upon joining a unified state. Lenin criticised this plan and suggested making concessions to the nationalists, whom he called “independents” at that time. Lenin’s ideas of what amounted in essence to a confederative state arrangement and a slogan about the right of nations to self-determination, up to secession, were laid in the foundation of Soviet statehood. Initially they were confirmed in the Declaration on the Formation of the USSR in 1922, and later on, after Lenin’s death, were enshrined in the 1924 Soviet Constitution. This immediately raises many questions.
President Xi Jinping and I have known each other for a long time, as good friends and politicians who hold largely the same views on addressing the world's problems; we maintain close and frequent contact. That is why, I immediately responded to his invitation to visit China and to join our Chinese friends in celebrating this year's main sporting event – the Winter Olympic Games. Moreover, the first ever Winter Olympics on Chinese soil will take place in the midst of the Chinese New Year, in Beijing – the first city in the world to host both the Summer and Winter Games. I know that the organizers have done a good job preparing for the Games. They made massive investments in sports and transport infrastructure, built modern sports venues. They created an environment for the safe stay of foreign athletes, coaches and journalists. I am sure that such excellent preparations for the Olympics will help the Olympic athletes to show their sporting character and demonstrate their skills and ability to achieve their goals in a fair and uncompromising competition. Naturally, we will be supporting our athletes, we will celebrate their every victory and every achievement. But only the competition will show how many and what medals they will win. Besides, the epidemiological situation may have an impact on athletes' participation and, consequently, on the final results. Sport is a unique phenomenon of human civilization. Major sports festivals are designed to bring nations together, deepen mutual understanding and promote the universally accepted principle of ”fair play“, as was vividly illustrated by the success of the large-scale sporting events such as the 2014 Sochi Winter Olympics and the 2018 FIFA World Cup, hosted by our country. Russia has been and remains committed to the traditional Olympic values. We oppose the attempts to politicize sport or use it as a tool of coercion, unfair competition and discrimination. We reject the practice of ”collective punishment“ for acts perpetrated by individual people, which has recently become a frequent occurrence. And of course, we strongly condemn the use of prohibited substances by athletes and advocate broad international cooperation in the fight against doping in sport. Our country has a well-developed infrastructure, sports schools known for their champions and traditions, and a rich history of sporting records; it organizes major international competitions, encouraging our citizens, especially our youth, to engage in physical culture and sports. This is what helps to preserve the health of the people and the nation as a whole and shape a strong foundation for future sporting achievements. We expect that by 2024 the share of people regularly engaging in sports will be 55 percent and by 2030 it will reach 70 percent. As for the interaction between Russia and China in sports and physical education, it occupies an important place in our bilateral humanitarian cooperation and is broad and complex in nature. A number of events, including those in winter sports, have become truly important. Among them are the Russian-Chinese Winter Youth Games and annual ice hockey matches on the Amur River between teams representing the two countries' border regions. We are actively developing exchanges between Russian and Chinese sports federations and professional clubs. For several years now, the Chinese hockey club Kunlun Red Star has played in the Russian Kontinental Hockey League, which was agreed during my visit to China in 2016. Cooperation is also developing in junior hockey. President Xi and I visited one of the games between Russian and Chinese teams in June 2018. The Russian and Chinese years of cooperation in physical education and sports in 2022–2023, which President Xi Jinping and I announced in December 2021, will certainly be a significant, memorable event for our two countries. Its programme includes about 500 various popular and youth sports events, as well as educational, sports science and staff training activities. Activities that prove most successful will continue to be organized on a regular basis. I firmly believe that the Winter Olympic Games in Beijing will be held to the highest standards. I wish successful performance and luck to all athletes, participants in the Olympics, and bright unforgettable moments and joy to the guests. The Treaty of Good-Neighborliness and Friendly Cooperation signed more than 20 years ago is a basic policy document that established the legal framework for a long-term consistent development of the Sino-Russian relations of comprehensive partnership and strategic interaction. That is why, on June 28 last year, President Xi Jinping and I decided to extend it for another five years. It is a very rich document in terms of ideas contained in it, many of its provisions being rediscovered in the context of today's rapidly changing international environment. Relations between Russia and China are developing on an equal, de-ideologised basis. Our partnership is sustainable, intrinsically valuable, not affected by the political climate and not aimed against anyone. It is underpinned by respect, regard for each other's core interests, adherence to international law and the UN Charter. The atmosphere of political trust created, among other things, thanks to this treaty, has allowed our countries to establish a multilayer structure of interstate cooperation, with meetings of the two leaders playing a key role. China remains firmly at the top of the list of Russia's trade partners. According to preliminary data, last year, even despite the pandemic-related restrictions, our bilateral trade reached a historic high, totalling 140 billion dollars. China is our strategic partner in the international arena. Our approaches to most issues on the global agenda concur or are really close. We engage in close coordination within many leading multilateral organizations and formats, such as the UN, BRICS, SCO, G20, APEC and EAS, which has a stabilizing effect on the current difficult world situation. To sum up, I would like to reiterate that the concepts laid out in the Treaty of Good-Neighborliness and Friendly Cooperation have allowed our countries to achieve an unprecedentedly high level of partnership, fundamentally changed its character and scope, and created the conditions enabling us to move forward together. I am not in a position to give any advice to people who are passionate about hockey. I would leave this to professional hockey players and coaches. I think the most important thing is to do your favourite sport – no matter what it is – on a routine basis and to work hard keeping your goal in sight. Over time, mastery will come. Ice hockey in Russia is big and has deep-rooted traditions. A special place here belongs to the Night Hockey League established in 2011. Today, it brings together almost 1100 teams with more than 20 thousand players from most regions of our country. Many of our renowned Olympic and world champions are actively involved in the development of the project, for which I am very grateful. The success achieved is evident. Last year, the number of amateur ice hockey players in Russia amounted to over 620 thousand, and that number is constantly growing. It is always a great pleasure for me to take part in the events of the League whenever my schedule allows. Every chance I get, I go alpine skiing. However, there are other sports disciplines I am interested in. I like biathlon and figure skating, where our athletes have traditionally been very strong. I enjoy watching competitions in ski flying but, for lack of time, can only do it on TV. Of course, we expect our hockey team to show its best performance at the upcoming Olympics. Russia's ice hockey squad is well-prepared, united by the team spirit and the will to win, and all its members are capable of scoring the first goal. There is no doubt that the hockey matches at the Olympics will, as always, be exciting and memorable. We are looking forward to seeing some fine play and, naturally, trust in our players and wish them every success. Geography People's
Events Article by Vladimir Putin ”Russia and China: A Future-Oriented Strategic Partnership“ for the Chinese News Agency Xinhua February 3, 2022 02:00 On the eve of my upcoming visit to China, I am pleased to address directly the large Chinese and foreign audience of Xinhua, the world's largest news agency. Our countries are close neighbours bound by centuries-old traditions of friendship and trust. We highly appreciate that Russian-Chinese relations of comprehensive partnership and strategic cooperation, entering a new era, have reached an unprecedented level and have become a model of efficiency, responsibility, and aspiration for the future. The basic principles and guidelines for joint work were defined by our countries in the Treaty of Good Neighborliness and Friendly Cooperation, the twentieth anniversary of which we celebrated last year. These are, first and foremost, equality, consideration of one another's interests, freedom from political and ideological circumstances, as well as from the vestiges of the past. These are the principles we are consistently building on year after year in the spirit of continuity to deepen our political dialogue. Despite the difficulties caused by the coronavirus pandemic, we are striving to dynamically build the capacity of economic partnerships and expand humanitarian exchanges. During the upcoming visit, the President of the People's Republic of China Xi Jinping and I will thoroughly discuss key issues on the bilateral, regional, and global agendas. It is symbolic that our meeting will take place during the Spring Festival – the Chinese Lunar New Year. After all, as the Chinese saying goes, ”make your whole year's plan in the spring“. The development of business ties will certainly be given special attention. There is every opportunity for this as our countries have substantial financial, industrial, technological and human resources allowing us to successfully resolve long-term development issues. By working together, we can achieve stable economic growth and improve the well-being of our citizens, strengthen our competitiveness, and stand together against today's risks and challenges. At the end of 2021, the volume of mutual trade increased by more than a third, exceeding the record level of 140 billion U.S. dollars. We are well on the way towards our goal of increasing the volume of trade to 200 billion U.S. dollars a year. A number of important initiatives are being implemented in the investment, manufacturing, and agro-industrial sectors. In particular, the portfolio of the Intergovernmental Commission on Investment Cooperation includes 65 projects worth over 120 billion U.S. dollars. This is about collaboration in such industries as mining and mineral processing, infrastructure construction, and agriculture. We are consistently expanding the practice of settlements in national currencies and creating mechanisms to offset the negative impact of unilateral sanctions. A major milestone in this work was the signing of the Agreement between the Government of Russia and the Government of the PRC on payments and settlements in 2019. A mutually beneficial energy alliance is being formed between our countries. Along with long-term supplies of Russian hydrocarbons to China, we have plans to implement a number of large-scale joint projects. The construction of four new power units at Chinese nuclear power plants with the participation of Rosatom State Corporation launched last year is one of them. All this significantly strengthens the energy security of China and the Asia region as a whole. We see an array of opportunities in the development of partnerships in information and communication technologies, medicine, space exploration, including the use of national navigation systems and the International Lunar Research Station project. A serious impetus to strengthening bilateral ties was given by the cross Years of Russian-Chinese Scientific, Technical and Innovative Cooperation in 2020–2021. We are grateful to our Chinese colleagues for their assistance in launching the production of Russian Sputnik V and Sputnik Light vaccines in China and for the timely supply of necessary protective equipment to our country. We hope that this cooperation will develop and strengthen. One of Russia's strategic objectives is to accelerate the social and economic upliftment of Siberia and the Russian Far East. These territories are immediate neighbors of the PRC. We also intend to actively develop interregional ties. Thus, the modernization of the Baikal-Amur Mainline and the Trans-Siberian Railway has been started. By 2024, their capacity must increase one and a half times through higher volumes of transit cargo and reduced transport time. The port infrastructure in the Russian Far East is also growing. All this should further enhance the complementarity of the Russian and Chinese economies. And, of course, the conservation of nature and shared ecosystems remains an important area of bilateral cross-border and interregional cooperation. These issues have always been the focus of our countries' public attention, and we will certainly discuss them in detail during the negotiations, as well as a wide range of humanitarian topics. Russia and China are countries with thousands of years of unique traditions and tremendous cultural heritage, the interest in which is persistently high both in our countries and abroad. It is true that in the last two years the number of tourists, joint mass events, and direct contacts between our citizens has reduced due to the pandemic. However, I have no doubt that we will catch up and, as soon as the situation allows, will launch new outreach and educational programs to introduce our citizens to the history and present-day life of the two countries. Thus, President Xi Jinping and I have agreed to hold the Years of Russian-Chinese cooperation in physical fitness and sports in 2022 and 2023. Certainly, an important part of the visit will be a discussion of relevant international topics. The coordination of the foreign policy of Russia and China is based on close and coinciding approaches to solving global and regional issues. Our countries play an important stabilizing role in today's challenging international environment, promoting the democratization of the system of interstate relations to make it more equitable and inclusive. We are working together to strengthen the central coordinating role of the United Nations in global affairs and to prevent the international legal system, with the UN Charter at its centre, from being eroded. Russia and China are actively cooperating on the broadest agenda within BRICS, RIC, the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, as well as other associations. Within the G20, we are committed to taking national specifics into account when formulating our recommendations, be it the fight against pandemics or the implementation of the climate agenda. Thanks to a large extent to our countries' shared solidarity, following the 2021 G20 Summit in Rome informed decisions were made on international cooperation to restore economic growth, recognize vaccines and vaccine certificates, optimize energy transitions, and reduce digitalization risks. We also have convergent positions on international trade issues. We advocate maintaining an open, transparent and non-discriminatory multilateral trading system based on the rules of the World Trade Organization. We support relaunching of global supply chains. Back in March 2020, Russia proposed an initiative on ”green trade corridors“ that excludes any sanctions, political and administrative barriers. Its implementation is a useful aid to overcoming the economic consequences of the pandemic. The XXIV Olympic Winter Games starting in Beijing are a major event of global significance. Russia and China are leading sporting nations renowned for their sporting traditions and not once have hosted the largest international competitions with dignity. I fondly remember my visit to Beijing in August 2008 to attend the 2008 Summer Olympics opening ceremony. Guests and athletes from Russia will remember the vivid performance for a long time, and the Games themselves were organized with the scale and exceptional hospitality inherent to our Chinese friends. For our part, we were delighted to host President Xi Jinping at the opening of the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi. Sadly, attempts by a number of countries to politicize sports to the benefit of their ambitions have recently intensified. This is fundamentally wrong and contrary to the very spirit and principles of the Olympic Charter. The power and greatness of sports are that it brings people together, gives moments of triumph and pride for the country and delights with fair, just and uncompromising competition. And these approaches are shared by most of the states participating in the international Olympic Movement. Our Chinese friends have done tremendous work to prepare well for the Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games. I am convinced that China's extensive experience in the excellent organization of representative international competitions will make it possible to hold this festival of world sports at the highest level. I would like to wish the Russian and Chinese teams impressive results and new records! I send my warmest congratulations to the friendly people of China on the occasion of the Spring Festival, which marks the beginning of the Year of the Tiger. I wish you good health, prosperity, and success. Geography People's Republic of China Topics Foreign policy Publication status Published in sections: News , Transcripts Publication date: February 3, 2022, 02:00 Direct link: en.kremlin.ru/d/67694 Text version
Thank you very much, colleagues. At this session we are discussing a truly serious issue of concern to all of us – the situation in Kazakhstan and ways to normalise it. And I agree with Mr Lukashenko that it concerns all of us. Regarding the developments in Kazakhstan, all of us know that President of Kazakhstan Kassym-Jomart Tokayev has appealed to the member states of the Collective Security Treaty Organisation for assistance, because his country, a fraternal country and a CSTO member state, came across an unprecedented challenge to its security, integrity and sovereignty. We know that the current threat to Kazakhstan’s statehood is not rooted in the spontaneous protests over fuel prices but in the fact that destructive internal and external forces made use of this situation. The people who protested over the situation on the fuel market and their goals are different from the people who took up arms to attack the state and their goals. Actively used were ‘Maidan’ technologies of armed and information support for the protests. There were organised and controlled groups of fighters, as President Tokayev has pointed out just now, including people who had apparently received training in terrorist camps abroad, and their attack on Kazakhstan, as President Tokayev has noted – and it was essentially an attack on the country, on Kazakhstan – amounts to an act of aggression. I fully agree with him in this regard. All of that called for an emergency response, and the appeal by the President of Kazakhstan was immediately supported by all heads of the CSTO member states and the Prime Minister of Armenia as the current Chair of the Collective Security Council. Crucially, our organisation and its secretariat have been able to take all the necessary decisions in a swift and well-coordinated manner. In fact, we had very little time and had to act in a matter of hours to prevent the foundations of state authority in Kazakhstan from being undermined, and the situation inside the country from deteriorating, as well as to stop terrorists, criminals, looters, and other criminal elements. The President of Kazakhstan has already told me during our telephone conversations that he has been receiving calls all the time from people asking and even pleading for him to protect them from these criminals and terrorists. We coordinated our joint steps to help the brotherly people of Kazakhstan in the swiftest possible manner, fully engaging the CSTO mechanism. The CSTO Collective Peacekeeping Forces have been sent to Kazakhstan. I would like to note that it will stay there for a limited period, as long as the President of Kazakhstan, the head of state, decides. Make no mistake, once it fulfils its mission, the entire force will leave the territory of Kazakhstan. We have succeeded in completing the deployment of this force within quite a short period of time. We view our joint actions as extremely timely and absolutely legitimate. The CSTO forces arrived in Kazakhstan following a formal request from the republic’s leadership and strictly in keeping with Article 4 of the Collective Security Treaty of 1992. Under this article, in the event of aggression against any of the member states, all other countries shall immediately provide the affected member state, at its request, the necessary assistance and support, including military assistance. We have been witnessing an international terrorist aggression. Where did these armed groups come from? It is obvious that they were trained in foreign camps and acquired combat experience in hotspots around the world. Our organisation has demonstrated its potential and the ability to take swift, decisive and effective action. Thank you very much, Mr Pashinyan. You know, I would like to close by making a couple of points. First, there is a very high level of interaction and a willingness of our colleagues to work – in the full sense of the word – at any time of day or night. This is what we have seen in the course of the events that are still unfolding. This, of course, is the result of the high level of trust that has developed between us over our years of cooperation. I think all our meetings, including informal ones, and the last meeting in St Petersburg in late 2021 also confirmed the fact that our contacts are beneficial for us and strengthen our interaction. Of course, I would like to thank everyone for this. This is my first point. Second, we need to think about improving the decision-making procedures for the use of joint forces. Our recent decisions were made quickly, but I think they need to be uniform as it would improve the quality of our work, raise it up a notch and make our work even more efficient, even though, in general, we have nothing to complain about. And the third issue, which does not concern all our colleagues. I would like to say just a few words on current issues over the telephone to Mr Rakhmon immediately after the meeting. If you do not have urgent matters at hand, I would like to call you right after the end of our session.
Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I am delighted to welcome you to the Kremlin. Due to the unfavourable pandemic situation, we have to hold the ceremony to present your letters of credence in this limited format. I hope you all understand. I am also happy to personally congratulate all of you on the official start of your diplomatic assignment in the Russian Federation and I wish you every success in fulfilling the honourable and responsible mission entrusted to you, to expand and strengthen ties between the states you represent and Russia. We are genuinely interested in your work being successful and rewarding. It goes without saying that you can fully count on the support and assistance of the Russian authorities, ministries and agencies, as well as on a benevolent attitude and constructive approach on the part of businesses, the political community and the public in Russia. I would like to express my confidence that your professional activity in Russia will involve interesting meetings, events, and contacts – well, this infection is bound to go away someday, we must defeat it and life must go back to normal. I really do hope that you will have opportunities to travel around our vast country on business and for pleasure, to get to know its multinational people, various religions, rich history and culture. And I hope that your stay in Russia will leave with the best impressions. Ladies and gentlemen, Recently, in my speech at the expanded meeting of the Foreign Ministry Board, I outlined the priorities of Russia’s foreign policy and gave a detailed overview of the current difficult international situation, as well as approaches to settling acute global and regional problems. We are consistently pursuing the idea that it is possible to effectively cope with the numerous challenges and threats only through joint efforts of the entire global community. Developments around the coronavirus pandemic constantly remind us about this, too. The vile infection is far from defeated, and, of course, it will not be possible to tackle it in one single country. Unfortunately, in real life everything is different, and the term “vaccine nationalism” is already in use, which, alas, reflects the real state of affairs not only on the commercial vaccine market, but also in providing assistance to countries in need. Ceremony for presenting letters of credence. In fact, I believe that without joining the efforts of all states, without establishing mutually beneficial and equal cooperation it will be impossible to address such difficult global problems and achieve success in fighting climate change, or countering terrorism and organised crime, or ensuring sustainable development. This is why we have called on all our international partners to act together, collectively, based on the central coordinating role of the United Nations and the founding principles of interstate communication envisaged in its Charter. At the same time, we express our concern not only over the fact that the international community is acting separately and cannot unite to address truly important problems, but also over how some of our partners are behaving towards our country, towards Russia, trying to restrain our development in every possible way, to exert sanctions pressure and, moreover, to escalate tensions near our borders. By the way, the threat on our western border is really growing, and we have mentioned it many times. It is enough to see how close NATO military infrastructure has moved to Russia’s borders. This is more than serious for us. In this situation, we are taking appropriate military-technical measures. But, I repeat, we are not threatening anyone and it is at the very least irresponsible to accuse us of this, given the real state of affairs. This would mean laying the blame at the wrong door, as the Russian saying goes. In my speech at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs I already stressed that the priority facing Russian diplomacy at this juncture is to try to ensure that Russia is granted reliable and long-term security guarantees. While engaging in dialogue with the United States and its allies, we will insist on the elaboration of concrete agreements that would rule out any further eastward expansion of NATO and the deployment of weapons systems posing a threat to us in close proximity to Russia’s territory. We suggest that substantive talks on this topic should be started. I would like to note in particular that we need precisely legal, juridical guarantees, because our Western colleagues have failed to deliver on verbal commitments they made. Specifically, everyone is aware of the assurances they gave verbally that NATO would not expand to the east. But they did absolutely the opposite in reality. In effect, Russia’s legitimate security concerns were ignored and they continue to be ignored in the same manner even now. We are not demanding any special terms for ourselves. We understand that any agreements must take into account the interests of both Russia and all other states in the Euro-Atlantic region. A calm and stable situation should be ensured for everyone and is needed by all without exception. That said, I would like to stress that Russia is interested precisely in constructive collaboration and in equitable international cooperation, and this remains the central tenet of Russian foreign policy. I hope that you will convey this signal to the leaders of your states. Ceremony for presenting letters of credence. Ladies and gentlemen, Heads of 20 diplomatic missions are present today at the ceremony. As per tradition, let me say a few words about the relations between Russia and every country you represent. We are interested in developing relations with the Slovak Republic on the principles of good neighbourly relations and mutual respect, considering the spiritual and cultural closeness of the two nations and common pages of history in fighting against Nazism. Unfortunately, today our political contacts are limited. However, if the Slovak side is ready, we could return to the mutually beneficial and constructive cooperation that our states supported for many years and that benefitted our nations. Russia and Vietnam’s comprehensive strategic partnership covers the political, economic and cultural spheres as well as many others. During the useful and substantive talks with President Nguyen Xuan Phuc held yesterday, agreements were reached to further expand Russian-Vietnamese cooperation. The talks reaffirmed that the position of Russia and Vietnam on topical issues on the international agenda are quite similar or completely identical. The President of Vietnam is continuing his visit, and today he is having meetings with representatives of the Russian leadership, businesses, and public and political circles. An impressive package of documents that envisage implementation of large joint projects, including in the oil and gas sector, will be signed. We regard Nigeria as a key partner of Russia on the African continent, with whom we have traditionally friendly relations. We talked with President Muhammadu Buhari during the Russia-Africa Summit held in Sochi two years ago. We hope that the Nigerian leadership will support Russia’s initiative to hold another meeting between the Russian and African leaders in 2022. As for specific areas of bilateral cooperation, we find expansion of the detailed dialogue on topical problems related to supporting stability on the global hydrocarbon markets, countering terrorism and religious extremism, to be quite promising. We hope that political life in the Republic of Guinea, a country friendly to Russia, will soon stabilise, and that national accord will be attained. For many years, Russia has been channelling substantial investment into the Guinean economy. Our companies have been producing and processing mineral commodities in Guinea for many years. It is now time to implement new interesting projects, including those in the sphere of energy, infrastructure, fisheries and agriculture. We advocate expanded cooperation with the Federal Republic of Somalia. Your Government is working actively to strengthen the country’s sovereignty and territorial integrity, it is fighting terrorism and extremism, striving to create favourable conditions for the socioeconomic revival. And, of course, we hope that all these efforts will be crowned with success. Our relations with the Republic of Ghana are developing steadily. We are expanding our interaction in the field of trade and energy, including the peaceful nuclear development. We jointly produce minerals and hydrocarbons. And, of course, we will continue to train professionals for various sectors of Ghana’s economy. Russia and Austria are developing their relations on a constructive and pragmatic foundation, while relying on the principles of mutual respect and consideration for each other’s interests. We are long-standing and reliable partners in the trade, investment and energy sphere. Mutual trade continues to expand despite the pandemic. In the first six months of 2021, bilateral trade soared by 26.5 percent, a very good indicator. This country values Austria’s policy of permanent neutrality, as well as Vienna’s authority as a generally recognised negotiating venue for multilateral diplomacy. Ceremony for presenting letters of credence. There are favourable opportunities for expanding trade and economic ties with the Islamic Republic of Mauritania, including in the area of high-seas fisheries where we cooperate closely. We appreciate your country’s substantial contribution to fighting terrorism in the Sahara-Sahel zone. Next year marks the 30 th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations with Tajikistan which is a good friend and reliable ally of Russia. This year, Tajik friends successfully presided in the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation Background information Shanghai Cooperation Organisation and the Collective Security Treaty Organisation Background information Collective Security Treaty Organisation . Our countries cooperate closely within the framework of these organisations and also within the Commonwealth of Independent States, and they coordinate their positions on topical regional matters. In view of the complicated situation in neighbouring Afghanistan, Russia is providing assistance to its Tajik friends in maintaining security, including under a programme to modernise the armed forces of Tajikistan. Ties between Russia and the Republic of the Union of Myanmar are traditionally friendly. We believe that our joint efforts can further develop our successful cooperation in the economic, military-technical and educational spheres. We are in favour of resolving the problems related to the tense internal political and ethno-religious situation in the country without outside interference, by the Myanmar themselves, on the basis of a political dialogue. Brazil is an important strategic partner of Russia. We work together at the BRICS Background information BRICS forum and G20 Background information Group of Twenty – G20 . Given the fact that in 2022–2023 your country will become a non-permanent member of the Security Council, we will cooperate more intensely at the UN on the topical issues on the global agenda. In addition to this, we will continue to progressively strengthen bilateral cooperation in the trade, economic, energy, scientific, and technological spheres, and others. We will be glad to see the President of Brazil in Russia. Friendly relations with the Republic of Angola have withstood the test of time. What matters most is that, together with our Angolan friends, we intend to fully develop our comprehensive cooperation, to promote our political dialogue and carry on our joint work in trade, investment, and culture among other things. In particular, these things were discussed during the Angolan Foreign Minister’s visit to Russia in October. The relations with the Republic of Italy are built on our strong traditions of cooperation, close historical and cultural ties, as well as a sincere liking between the two nations. This year, Italy has successfully presided in G20 and held quite a fruitful summit of the group dedicated to countering the pandemic, restoring the global economy, and preserving the climate. We provided our comprehensive support to Italy’s presidency. We have regular telephone conversations with Prime Minister Draghi to discuss current issues on the international, regional and bilateral agenda. Let me mention that this year, the implementation of a large joint initiative, the Cross Year of Museums, continues in the cultural field. Next year, we will mark the 65 th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations with Sri Lanka. Good contacts have been established between foreign ministries, defence ministries and ministries of the economic bloc, as well as between parliaments. By the way, the Secretary of Russia’s Security Council Nikolai Patrushev has just visited Colombo, on November 22. Since 2009, Sri Lanka has been involved in the work of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation as a dialogue partner, and it contributes to efforts facilitating the security of the Eurasian region and its sustainable socioeconomic growth. Before the presentation letters of credence. We continue to expand our interaction with the Republic of Benin. Notably, we are drafting an intergovernmental agreement on military cooperation and a memorandum of understanding in the area of sport. Russian companies are interested in participating in joint geological prospecting, energy and infrastructure projects in Benin. Ecuador ranks among Russia’s three largest Latin American trade partners. Stable supplies of Russian hydrocarbons are an important factor in the sustainable development of the Ecuadorean economy. In turn, Ecuador’s diverse agricultural produce is quite popular on the Russian market. In August 2021, I had a telephone conversation with President of the Republic of Ecuador, Mr Guillermo Lasso, and we agreed to further promote bilateral ties, to maintain proactive political dialogue and expand interdepartmental contacts, including those between the prosecutor general’s offices and emergency response services and to help implement joint projects in various fields. This year marks the 30 th anniversary of the establishment of official diplomatic relations between Russia and the Republic of Panama, and we are determined to continue our political contacts, as well as trade and investment and cultural-humanitarian cooperation. Russian businesses are attracted to Panama, a major logistic and financial centre, making it possible to deliver goods, services and capital to the entire vast Latin American region. Next year, we will mark the 30 th anniversary of establishing diplomatic relations with the Republic of El Salvador. We have established friendly and equitable interaction with this country, as well as traditions of mutually beneficial cooperation in various sectors. An intergovernmental cooperation agreement on joint anti-crime efforts, especially those aiming to fight organised crime, is at the ratification stage. Russia is helping El Salvador to develop its hydropower industry. We are interested in further expanding our trade and economic cooperation, as well as educational and professional exchanges. We attach great importance to contacts and cooperation with Spain, and they are progressing nicely. Next year, we will jointly celebrate the 45 th anniversary of restoring diplomatic relations. It should be noted that despite the pandemic, bilateral trade is improving. Joint projects are moving forward, mutually beneficial dialogue is being maintained at the political level, as are very active business and cultural ties. Next week, I will visit India. During talks with Prime Minister Modi, we will outline new large-scale initiatives for the further development of the especially privileged Russian-Indian relationship, the Russian-Indian strategic partnership. This partnership brings real mutual benefit to both states. Bilateral trade shows good dynamics; ties are actively developing in the energy sector, innovation, space, and the production of coronavirus vaccines and medicines. There is extensive cooperation in the defence sector, including through the creation of joint ventures. India is one of the authoritative centres of the multipolar world with a foreign policy philosophy and priorities that are closely aligned with our own. I am convinced that, relying on strong traditions of friendship and mutual understanding, we will continue working together to expand the full range of Russian-Indian ties. After the presentation letters of credence. Ladies and gentlemen, I just briefly touched on Russia's relations with the states you represent. I hope that with your active participation, these relations will be filled with new content, mutually beneficial projects, useful initiatives and, in general, will make rapid progress for the benefit of the people of our countries and in the interests of international security and stability. I wish you success, good health and all the best. I am not sure, it is unlikely that we will be able to meet before the New Year in this composition – the New Year is just around the corner. So, Happy New Year! Thank you for your attention. Thank you very much.
Friends, I am delighted to welcome the participants in the Second Russia-Uzbekistan Interregional Cooperation Forum. I believe in the importance of this bilateral framework and its relevance not only for promoting region-to-region ties between the Russian Federation and Uzbekistan, but also for strengthening our strategic partnership, which stands out for its intensity and vibrancy, and is truly multifaceted. Russia is one of Uzbekistan’s leading trading partners, ranking second in its foreign trade. Even during the pandemic, our economic ties continued to expand. In 2020, trade increased by 16 percent almost reaching US$6 billion, and in the first nine months of 2021 it grew by more than 6 percent. This is largely attributable to region-to-region cooperation. Russian regions that are proactive in maintaining economic ties with their partners in Uzbekistan include Moscow, St Petersburg, Tatarstan, as well as the Chelyabinsk, Moscow, Ivanovo and Samara regions. The construction of the Tashkent Metallurgical Plant and the Kandym Gas Processing Complex, as well as the launch in Uzbekistan of harvester production with Rostselmash’s participation are all examples of mutually beneficial cooperation in recent years. Russia is one of the main investors in Uzbekistan’s economy with over 150 joint projects currently underway worth over US$14 billion. The number of ventures with Russian capital increased 2.5 times over the past four years to exceed 2,000 entities. Let me note, in particular, the INNOPROM. Big Industrial Week in Uzbekistan exhibition. It took place in April 2021 with the participation of 13 Russian regions and resulted in the signing of 21 agreements worth some US$130 million. Of course, we welcome the interest expressed by our friends in Uzbekistan in stepping up their ties with their Russian partners, which is demonstrated by the fact that over the past two months delegations from Uzbekistan visited 20 Russian regions. This kind of cooperation has far from depleted its potential. There are many opportunities for undertaking new direct cooperation projects, creating value chains in manufacturing, agriculture, pharmaceuticals, and innovative technology. By playing a more proactive role within the Eurasian Economic Union our partners in Uzbekistan could further strengthen our cooperation. In late 2020, Uzbekistan became an observer in our integration structure, and we are certain that this will benefit Uzbekistan and all EAEU member states. Of course, region-to-region ties are not just about the economy or trade. We have built a solid record of accomplishments in working together on protecting the environment, water resources and forests, as well as biodiversity and conservation areas. We are carrying out joint projects for addressing the urgent environmental problems of the Aral Sea and facilitating socioeconomic development in the entire Aral Sea region. Russia and Uzbekistan are proactive in promoting their humanitarian ties, as well as stepping up their academic, educational and youth exchanges. The Second Russia-Uzbekistan Educational Forum , currently taking place at Lomonosov Moscow State University, will discuss these and many other important matters. By the way, Russian universities have 14 branches and representative offices in Uzbekistan. This number will increase to 16 next year. St Petersburg State University will open its branch in Tashkent. A number of other projects to improve Russian language teaching in Uzbekistan’s kindergartens and schools are underway. To conclude, I strongly believe that the Regional Forum will make a tangible contribution to further promoting the strategic partnership and allied relations between Russia and Uzbekistan and strengthen our neighbourly and mutually beneficial ties for the benefit of our peoples. I would like to thank the organisers and all the participants in this forum and wish them every success. Thank you for your attention.
To begin with, why they do not speak with each other is not a question for me. We have nothing to do with that. But I inferred from my conversations with President Lukashenko and Chancellor Merkel that they are ready to speak with one another. I hope it will happen soon and some sort of direct contact will be established between the European Union, the EU leading nations, or at least between the Federal Republic of Germany and Belarus. This is crucial because the migrants’ goal is primarily to get into Germany. In this connection, I would like to remind you what our Foreign Ministry has already stated. We should not forget the roots of these migration crises. Was it Belarus that unleashed these problems? No, the problems were caused by the West, by the European countries. These problems have political, military and economic dimensions. Military because everyone participated in the Iraq operations, and now there are many Kurds from Iraq ; they had also fought in Afghanistan for twenty years, thus there are more and more Afghans there. Belarus has nothing to do with that. The migrants were also moving via different routes. And it is not surprising that they are now going through Belarus because, as Mr Lukashenko told me, Belarus has visa-free arrangements with the countries of origin. First come military and political causes, That is exactly what I said. There are humanitarian issues, there are small children there. Honestly, when I watch that, I first of all feel empathy for the children. Look, the temperature drops below freezing at night while those people are sitting there without any resources, which are running out. When they arrive, they have some money with them, but money does not appear out of thin air, and they spend what they have there, on the border. Yes, the people arouse sympathy, of course. I am not talking about the causes or what is going on there. I certainly feel sorry for the people. They did not exactly address us. The strategic aviation cannot do anything to resolve such crises. We have scheduled exercises with our Belarusian colleagues, as we do regularly. It is our Western partners who constantly hold regular and irregular drills of various kinds there. We also do that, and our strategic aviation also regularly flies and marks the presence of our strategic aviation along its patrol routes. To be honest, this is the first time I hear about it because I spoke with Mr Lukashenko twice recently and he never told me about that, not even a hint. But he can probably do that. Although there is nothing good about it and I will certainly talk to him about this issue, unless he just said it in the heat of the moment. However, we already have experience with Ukraine doing similar things. In 2008, if my memory serves me right, there was a crisis when we were unable to agree on the basic contract parameters among incessant arguments over the price of gas and transit. It came to the point that Ukraine blocked our gas bound for European consumers. They simply, as specialists say, turned off the tap and closed off the transit of Russian gas to Europe. This did happen. Of course, theoretically, Lukashenko, as president of a transit country, can issue an order to cut off our deliveries to Europe even though it will violate our transit contract. I hope it will not come to that. But on the other hand, sanctions are imposed on him and there is a threat of new sanctions. However, it would do more damage to Europe’s energy sector and would not contribute to the development of our relations with Belarus as a transit country. I have not seen such alarmist declarations, so far, at least. But I suppose it is as you say. Indeed, the United States and their NATO allies are presently conducting an unscheduled, and I want to stress that it is unscheduled, drill in the Black Sea. They deployed a powerful naval group and they are also using the air force in the drill, including strategic aviation. Here is a part of the answer to your previous question about where and how our strategic missile carriers fly. They use the B 51, which are pretty old aircraft but it is not the carriers that matter. The point is that they have combat strategic weapons onboard, which is a grave challenge for us. I should say that our Defence Ministry also suggested holding an unscheduled drill in the area of the Black Sea but I do not think it is expedient and there is no need to aggravate the situation there even further. For that reason, the Russian Defence Ministry has limited its actions to escorting their aircraft and ships. This is number one. Second, regarding Ukraine. We are being urged to implement the Minsk agreements and are often accused of not observing them. However, when we ask our partners, including in the Normandy format, exactly which part of the Minsk agreements Russia is not fulfilling and what, in their opinion, Russia is supposed to do under the Minsk agreements, we get no answer. I have not heard the latest insistent suggestions, although we are discussing it. I think we do not have any other mechanisms, and however hard the situation is today, however difficult solving this issue might be, these mechanisms should be used so as to at least approach the settlement of the problems we are talking about. Topics Armed Forces Foreign policy Media Migration National security 1
Madam Chairperson, colleagues, Like the other speakers, first I would like to thank our partners from New Zealand, the current chair of the APEC forum, for the work they carried out this year in the difficult conditions of the pandemic. In particular, the idea to hold an extraordinary APEC summit in July to discuss the fight against the coronavirus was timely and useful. Logically, our current discussion is focused on issues of socioeconomic recovery and overcoming the pandemic with a view to ensuring sustainable and long-term growth in the Asia-Pacific. As International Monetary Fund Managing Director Kristalina Georgieva noted, there are still many problems, however the global economy is gradually emerging from the crisis. Indeed, recent forecasts show that by the end of this year the world GDP will have increased by 5.9 percent. Moreover, this figure will be even higher for the APEC economies – an average of 6.4 percent. See also Final 2021 APEC Economic Leaders’ Declaration 167.5 kB pdf Aotearoa Plan of Action 955.9 kB pdf As for Russia, we have already returned to pre-pandemic levels in terms of GDP growth, and in our estimate, it will be up 4.7 percent in 2021. Of course, this is not the highest figure in the region, but it is not the lowest, either. It is a good figure for our economy. At the same time, many socioeconomic and other problems, which you, colleagues, have already spoken about, persist in the Asia-Pacific and in the world. The coronavirus itself is far from being defeated yet. New, even more dangerous strains of this virus may still appear. So, it is no exaggeration to say that it is vitally important not to slacken our efforts in countering the pandemic and doing everything necessary to strengthen healthcare systems in our countries and improve their resource and technological basis. Naturally, a substantial build-up of international cooperation in the medical and pharmaceutical areas would facilitate the solution to these ambitious goals. The role of the World Health Organisation is becoming increasingly important in this context. Its activities certainly deserve all-round support. It is unacceptable to take actions that can encroach on the prerogatives of the WHO, which operates under the aegis of the United Nations. With our common support, the WHO can conduct large-scale immunisation with greater intensity because, unfortunately, as some speakers have also noted here, many countries that need vaccines have no access to them. This is happening for several reasons, including unfair competition, protectionism, and some counties’ lack of willingness to mutually recognise vaccines and vaccine certificates. The WHO could expedite the procedures for pre-qualification of new vaccines and medications, that is, an assessment of their quality, safety and efficiency. At the recent G20 summit, Russia suggested to its partners studying the issue of the mutual recognition of national vaccines and certificates as soon as possible. I am confident that the sooner this is done the easier it will be to fully restore global business, tourism and other activities. I would like to emphasise that our country continues helping all countries who need it with supplies of vaccines, medications, equipment, test systems and individual protection gear. Russia, as is well known, was the first in the world to register an anti-COVID-19 vaccine, Sputnik V. As of today, it has been approved in 71 countries with a total population of over four billion people. It has demonstrated its high safety and high efficacy. Apart from the Sputnik V two-component vaccine, Russia developed and is using a one-component vaccine, Sputnik Light, which can be used, among other things, to boost the effectiveness of other vaccines. We also offer it to our partners. Colleagues, The pandemic has revealed that it is of paramount importance for all nations to have free and non-discriminatory access to vitally important goods, services, resources and technology. Russia opposes protectionism in the global economy and trade and advocates an end to the use of unilateral and politically motivated restrictions for the sake of fighting for markets and removing competitors. We firmly believe that maintaining and enhancing the multilateral trade system, with the World Trade Organisation at its core, is in the interests of the entire international community. In late November, Geneva will host the 12 th WTO Ministerial Conference, with representatives from all of our economies taking part. I would suggest guiding them towards working out compromise agreements in trade which will contribute to the expansion of reciprocal economic and technological exchanges. Russia is ready to make its contribution to this work. Our country is also keen on the closest cooperation with APEC economies on digitalisation. Digital technologies are a good foundation in resolving the comprehensive task of enhancing connectivity in the Asia-Pacific, and in developing infrastructure, and transport and logistical corridors. We consider that priority areas of cooperation among the APEC members on the digital track include the exchange of advanced experience in introducing digital technologies to traditional economic sectors, training relevant personnel, perfecting the regulatory framework of the information sphere, developing communication systems and communication lines, and the use of AI. Naturally, in discussing cooperation issues among the APEC economies to resolve pressing global and regional problems we must consider the fact that climate change is a very serious challenge. At one time, APEC endorsed, at Russia’s initiative, a list of products that contribute to environmental protection and help conserve natural resources. The economies of the forum committed to provide preferential trade requirements for these products. So, we certainly support the proposal by New Zealand’s chairmanship to expand the list of these commodities. Russian experts will take a most active part in this work. In general, we believe that trade policy can do more to counter global warming and encourage the introduction of advanced technology to reduce greenhouse emissions. At the same time, the global economy’s adaption to new, tougher environmental requirements and the transition to “clean” energy sources should take into account the entire range of issues of socioeconomic development and strictly rest on universal agreements set forth in the UN framework. Colleagues, All these urgent issues of APEC cooperation are reflected in the Final 2021 APEC Economic Leaders’ Declaration and the Plan for implementing long-term APEC development goals to 2040. These documents have been prepared for endorsement following the summit. Russia certainly supports them. We believe both documents are a good foundation for further promoting cooperation within forum in the search for collective responses to the most pressing challenges and threats in the Asia-Pacific Region. I would like to make one more point that we consider important. Greater coordination with other regional forums and organisations with a consonant agenda would make APEC’s performance more effective. I am referring to the Eurasian Economic Union, the Association of Southeast Asian Countries and the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation. Russia will do all it can to facilitate this. In general, we intend to take a most active part in developing constructive and mutually beneficial cooperation in the entire vast Asia-Pacific space. In conclusion, I would like to wish success to our friends from Thailand that are taking over the APEC chairmanship. You can certainly rely on our support and assistance. Thank you for your attention.
Mr. Prime-Minister Johnson, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to have this opportunity to welcome participants in the meeting on forests and land-use. I am convinced that the conservation of forests and other natural ecosystems is a key component of international efforts to address global warming and reduce emissions of greenhouse gases. This topic fits organically into the multidimensional agenda of the Glasgow Climate Change Conference. See also Glasgow Leaders' Declaration on Forests and Land Use November 2, 2021 By aiming to build a carbon-neutral economy by no later than 2060, Russia is relying, among other things, on the unique resource of forest ecosystems available to us, and their significant capacity to absorb carbon dioxide and produce oxygen. After all, our country accounts for around 20 per cent of the world’s forestland. We take the strongest and most vigorous measures to conserve it. We improve forest management, and fight illegal logging and forest fires. We are expanding reforestation areas. We have been consistently increasing funding for these purposes. Russia supports the draft joint declaration on forests and land-use proposed for approval at today’s meeting. We expect its implementation to facilitate closer partnerships between all interested States in forest conservation. This will undoubtedly serve to fulfill the objectives of reducing levels of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere set out in the Paris Agreement. I would like to wish all of us success and all the best. Thank you.
Mr President of the G20 Mario Draghi, Colleagues, Additional G20 Rome Leaders’ Declaration October 31, 2021 Indeed, the matters related to combatting climate change that we are discussing today are of the utmost importance and concern each and every one of us. Russia, like other countries, is experiencing – actually experiencing – the negative bearing of global warming,
"Chairman Draghi, colleagues, I shall speak on the topics that were put forward by Italy for today’s discussion: the global economy and global health.
I should say straight away that this theme largely
concerns what we are all working on, and Russia’s position, as I saw from the previous
speeches, mainly overlaps with what our colleagues spoke about here.
Last year the economic authorities of the G20 member
countries and many other countries decided to significantly increase their budget
deficits against the backdrop of the deep crisis caused by the pandemic, which
allowed for launching global economic recovery. However, such extraordinary measure
accompanied by securities buyouts by central banks should be limited in time. In fact, this is what was said here earlier.
In Russia, for example, the budget deficit rose
to four percent of the GDP in 2020 against the background of large-scale support
measures for the population, small and medium-sized businesses, and the healthcare
system. This allowed us to achieve a recovery of the labour market. In the current
year we have normalised our macroeconomic policy to the point that the budget
will be in the surplus. We have not only achieved that, but we have also tightened
out monetary policy. Overall, the situation in G20 countries is slightly
different. While in 2017–2019, the average budget deficit was around 3.8 percent
of GDP, it grew to 11.2 percent in 2020 amidst the pandemic. This year, although
slightly lower, the budget deficit remains rather high at 8.7 percent. I would like
to note that the United States will account for 40 percent of the G20 countries’
budget deficits combined in 2020–2021. I am saying this because we all understand
very well that the state of the US economy is what determines the state of the global economy.
Excessive stimulation has resulted in the general
lack of stability, growing prices of financial assets and goods in certain markets
such as energy, food, etc. Once again, significant budget deficits in the developed
economies are the main cause of these developments. With these deficits persisting,
there is a risk of high global inflation in the medium term, which not only increases
the risk of lower business activity but reinforces and exacerbates the inequality
that was also mentioned today.
That is why it is important to prevent aggravating
stagflation and instead do what can be done to normalise the budgetary and monetary
policies, improve the quality of demand management in the economy and update economic
priorities – and primarily prioritise overcoming inequality and boosting public
welfare.
We have always welcomed and continue to welcome
the efforts of the G20 to support the poorest countries. I agree with those who
have already said that sustainable growth of the global economy is, of course, impossible
unless this issue is addressed. By the way, the developed countries, including many
of the G20 states, have recently been affected by inequality and poverty. It is
important to deal with this problem by means of economic and budgetary policy.
I would like to point out that, despite the decisions
of the G20, vaccines and other vital resources are still not available to all the countries in need. Among other reasons, this is due to competition, which is dishonest,
in my opinion, as well as protectionism and the fact that certain countries,
including G20 countries, are not ready for mutual recognition of the vaccines
and vaccination certificates.
There is an urgent need for the World Health Organisation
to expedite the pre-qualification of new vaccines and drugs – that is, to evaluate
their quality, safety and effectiveness. I am convinced that the sooner this is
accomplished, the easier it will be to resume global business activity, including
tourism, which has been hit the hardest.
I propose instructing healthcare ministries of the G20 to address the matter of mutual recognition of national vaccination certificates
within the shortest possible term.
Experts believe that COVID-19 will continue to be
a threat for a long time. I think WHO representatives will speak about this today
as well. Considering that the virus continues mutating, we should develop mechanisms
to boost vaccines promptly and consistently.
I would like to remind you that Russia was the first
country in the world to register a COVID-19 vaccine, Sputnik V. Currently, this
vaccine is approved in 70 countries with a total population of over 4 billion people,
and it has demonstrated high safety and effectiveness. In addition to the double-dose
Sputnik V, we also developed and widely use a single-dose vaccine, Sputnik
Light, which can boost the effect of other vaccines. We are working with our colleagues
from Europe on having this vaccine available there and offering it to our
partners.
Large-scale efforts to counter the coronavirus require
higher-quality and more affordable medical care in all countries and, therefore,
wider international cooperation in healthcare. In view of the current situation,
the role of the World Health Organisation is becoming increasingly important
and its activities, of course, deserve our full support. It is unacceptable to make
attempts to impinge upon the prerogatives of the WHO, which operates under the aegis of the United Nations. In this context, I fully agree with the President of France, Mr Macron.
In addition to the pandemic, other crises on the regional energy markets have shown once again how essential it is for the modern
world to have a stable and reliable energy sector. I would like to say a few words
about this. Supplying affordable energy to consumers is extremely important and our colleagues have just talked about it. I would like to add that the stability
of global energy markets directly depends on the responsible conduct of all market
participants, both energy producers and energy consumers, with due account for each
party’s long-term interests.
Russia supports having an in-depth pragmatic discussion
of this matter, based on purely economic considerations.
Colleagues,
Creating conditions for an equal and non-discriminatory
cooperation for all nations is the main prerequisite for a steady and long-term
recovery of the global economy, higher quality of life and better public welfare.
As we understand, this is the key goal for the G20 as a forum of the world’s
leading economies.
Thank you very much."
Your Majesty, colleagues, First of all, I would like to greet His Majesty the Sultan of Brunei Darussalam, who is chairing the Russia – ASEAN Summit. My greetings to all our ASEAN friends. Strengthening ties with ASEAN and its member states has always been and remains one of Russia's foreign policy priorities. This year we are celebrating the 30 th anniversary of official relations between our country and ASEAN. These relations, as recorded in the Joint Statement adopted at the Russia-ASEAN Summit in Singapore in 2018, are truly strategic in nature. See also Joint statement of the 4th ASEAN-
Your Majesty, colleagues, I would like to begin by expressing my gratitude to His Majesty Sultan of Brunei Darussalam for organising this event. See also East Asia Summit Leaders’ Statement on Economic Growth through Tourism Recovery October 27, 2021 East Asia Summit Leaders’ Statement on Mental Health Cooperation October 27, 2021 East Asia Summit Leaders’ Statement on Sustainable Recovery October 27, 2021 The East Asia Summits provide a good opportunity to discuss the situation in the Asia-Pacific Region, map out possible solutions to the most challenging problems and coordinate measures to maintain peace and stability and to strengthen mutually beneficial multilateral cooperation. Our common region has indeed become one of the most dynamic global centres of political, business and investment activity. At the same time, it is facing serious challenges and threats in terms of security, and economic and social development, which have been augmented by the coronavirus during the past two years. Therefore, it is quite logical that this summit is focusing on the struggle against the pandemic and efforts to overcome its consequences, as well as the implementation of the joint Statement on Strengthening Collective Capacity in Epidemics Prevention and Response, which was adopted at Russia’s initiative. In this context, we are certainly ready to exchange experience with interested countries on the practical aspects of combatting infectious diseases. We could also expand the training programme for epidemiologists from ASEAN Background information Association of Southeast Asian Nations states at the Vladivostok Research Centre of Biosecurity in the Asia-Pacific region. In November and December, we will hold a new series of relevant advanced training courses on that platform, which representatives of the regional countries are welcome to attend. Additional Russia-ASEAN Summit October 28, 2021 I would like to note that Russia is seeking to make a real contribution to efforts aimed at ensuring free and non-discriminatory access to vaccines against COVID-19 for citizens of all states. We are in favour of developing a procedure involving reciprocal recognition of vaccination certificates, without which it is practically impossible to support the unrestricted movement of citizens of our countries across the region. The use of Russian vaccines, primarily Sputnik V , has been approved by 70 countries, and they are supplied to more than 50. We are grateful to many partners in the Asia-Pacific Region for our joint work to localise the production of vaccines. We will continue to provide Russian test kits and reagents needed for diagnosing COVID-19, including free of charge. Protecting mental health and rendering psychological support is of particular importance against the background of the pandemic and related tough restrictions, including the need to stay at home or go into self-isolation. For this reason, we certainly support the initiative of the Brunei chairmanship to approve a separate thematic statement following today’s meeting. In general, we suggest that a regional mechanism for anti-pandemic collaboration be established under the aegis of the East Asia Summits, and we will shortly submit specific considerations on this score via the expert channels. Colleagues, We believe it is quite important for the states in this region to engage in the further strengthening of trade and economic ties, the more so that business activity is gradually recovering. Russia, for one, has managed to reach the pre-crisis level, with GDP growth amounting to 3.7 percent on August 2020. During the first eight months of 2021, Russia’s trade with countries participating in the East Asia Summits grew by more than 34 percent to $162 billion. The states present here account for $18.5 billion in direct accumulated investment into the Russian economy, which is more than a twofold increase over five years. We should support the incipient economic recovery by taking additional measures to stimulate the backbone industries of our economies and by seeking further coordination of efforts in this area. We believe that tourism deserves special attention. It is one of the sectors that have been hardest hit by COVID-19. Meanwhile, for some countries that are taking part in this summit,
Friends, I am sincerely happy to welcome all of you to St Petersburg and to the third Eurasian Women’s Forum. As you know, it was held for the first time in 2015, and has confidently gained a place among reputable international platforms, which can be confirmed by the current forum’s representation.
The same to you. No, I prefer not to answer questions of this kind. This is what I usually say in response. There is quite some time left before the next election, and discussing this topic has a destabilising effect. We need calm and stability so that all government agencies and structures work in all confidence, and do not worry about the future. It is true that under the Constitution I can do this, and run for another term, but there has been no decision to this effect so far. I think that the Middle East is a very promising region of the world. What I currently see both in the United Arab Emirates and in Saudi Arabia is that the leaders of these countries are proactive in their efforts to diversify their economies. They are thinking about the future, and I am certain that they will achieve results because they are steadfast in their commitment. As for our efforts to stabilise the global energy market, it is true that we have debates that can get quite heated, and each of us defends their positions, but in the end, we always arrive at balanced decisions that are acceptable to all the sides, at least this has been the case so far. Our partners, despite the fact that they are leaders in oil production and sales, are still making plans on green energy. At first glance, this may seem strange, but this is what is really happening. We are discussing with them opportunities for investing heavily in new technologies and energy sources. I think that this is a very promising sphere for future cooperation. Contracts in crypto? This seems premature. Of course, cryptocurrency can be used in settlements, but it is very unstable. It is fine for transferring funds from one place to another, but I think it would be premature to use it in trading, especially when dealing with energy resources. So far cryptocurrency has lacked any backing. It is legitimate and can be used in settlements, no doubt about that, but it is too early to use it for trading in oil or other raw materials and energy sources. However, things change, and everything has the right to exist. We will see how this will go from here. Maybe crypto will one day be used to store value. But we see how the market fluctuates, so it seems too early for that now. This is not what I said. Of course, there is value there. However, can it be used in settlements when buying and selling oil? This is what I am talking about. In order to mine crypto, you need a lot of energy, and for that people have to use traditional sources of energy, primarily hydrocarbons. I think that the United States is making a big mistake when it uses dollars as a sanctions tool. This is what they are actually doing because they make it impossible to pay for products under sanctions with US dollars. Our clients simply cannot pay us in dollars for the products we deliver to them. What happens next? We have no choice other than to switch to other currencies in our settlements. This is the first point I wanted to make. The second is, when other countries that rely on the dollar as their reserve currency or in settlements see what is going on, they start worrying that the dollar may be used against them in a similar fashion. They also start scaling down their dollar assets and do not use the dollar in their settlements as actively as they used to. As a result, even the closest US partners and allies are reducing the share of the dollar in their reserves, which is a statistical fact. Of course, we are doing this, by reducing the share of the US dollar in our reserves, as well as in settlements. This is not always possible, but we try to switch to national currencies. In this regard we can say that the United States is cutting the branch it is sitting on, because the status of an international reserve currency is a major competitive advantage, but through their actions they are undermining it, undermining their strategic economic interests for the sake of momentary political gain. It is undermining its standing as a global reserve currency. The volume of dollar-denominated settlements is declining, and countries are scaling down their dollar reserves. That said, we are not interested in giving up on dollar settlements altogether. So far, we were quite satisfied with using dollars in settlements for energy resources, primarily oil. However, if the US authorities persist in their policy as I have described it, we will have no other choice. The US will have undermined confidence in the dollar by its own actions. Besides, the US sovereign debt is growing. Congress has once again increased the sovereign debt ceiling. What does this mean? Money printing. What would be the result? Higher inflation. This is probably the first time inflation in the United States is growing at a speed that has not been seen for quite a while. These are economic reasons that undermine confidence in a currency. I also believe that President Xi Jinping is my friend. We have worked together for many years and have achieved good results on both the political and economic tracks. I believe that this benefits the people of China and Russia, and gives more balance and a sense of stability in international affairs. Creating blocks like the one you have mentioned, formed by the United States, Great Britain and Australia, undermines regional stability. I believe that being friends with someone is a good thing, but being friends against someone is bad. This undermines the stability we have been discussing and that matters so much to us. What has happened has happened, but I do hope that the situation will not follow some unpredictable scenario and would not create additional tension in the region. Our greatest concern and the main task is to increase people’s incomes. This is our priority, our number one task, and we are not going to resolve it by simple linear methods. To do this, we must ensure the growth of the economy and a change of its infrastructure. This is a long-term goal. We are not going to use populist methods. It is based on qualitative economic growth that we intend to resolve major social tasks, including an increase in the incomes of the Russian people and the demographic problem, which is our second most important task. It implies a The person you mentioned is in a detention facility. Not the best conditions on earth but he is not alone. Apart from him, other people have also violated Russian laws. We are not going to put anyone in some exclusive conditions, including those that are covering up their dealings with political activities. I think this answers your question. Thank you.
Mr Rahmon, friends, First of all, I would like to join my colleagues in thanking the President of Tajikistan and all our Tajik friends for their active work during their chairmanship of the Collective Security Treaty Organisation and also for preparing today’s meeting. As you know, unfortunately, I was forced to call off my visit to Dushanbe at the last moment, and I regret this very much. This is linked, as you know, with the fact that several dozen people in my inner circle, and not just one or two, were diagnosed with COVID-19. And now, I will have to self-isolate for several days. Unfortunately, I am unable to shake your hands and to hug you all, but, of course, we are interested in taking part and discussing, albeit online, the key tasks facing our Organisation. As has already been noted, the situation in the CSTO’s zone of responsibility and on the external borders of its member states remains unstable and spells new and truly acute challenges and risks for the security of our countries. Immediately following the hasty withdrawal of US forces and those of their allies from Afghanistan, we met for an extraordinary CSTO summit and exchanged opinions on the dangers linked with the drastically changed situation in that country. At the time, everyone supported the conclusion that, in the current conditions, it was more necessary than ever to ensure the closest possible coordination of CSTO member states and their cohesion. We also agreed that it was essential to be ready at any time to make full use of the CSTO’s defensive and political potential in order to ensure security and maintain peace and stability in our countries.  Topics CSTO Foreign policy National security Persons Japarov Sadyr Lukashenko Alexander Pashinyan Nikol Rahmon Emomali Tokayev Kassym-Jomart 1
Prime Minister Modi, President Xi Jinping, President Ramaphosa, President Bolsonaro, Ladies and gentlemen, First, I would like to join my colleagues who spoke before and thank Prime Minister Modi and all our Indian friends for the active work conducted by India as the BRICS chair this year. Despite the special conditions related to the coronavirus pandemic, India as the chair has done everything it could to ensure the progressive development of strategic partnership of the BRICS countries without any setbacks. I agree with my colleagues who expressed this opinion that the authority of our association is growing. Its role in international affairs is on the rise and it is substantial. This is a logical result of the BRICS ability to develop effective cooperation in the entire range of topical global and regional issues during 15 years of our joint activities. Such close partnership of the BRICS countries is greatly in demand, considering that the global situation still remains very turbulent. The risks of the coronavirus pandemic are obvious to all of us, and my colleagues have just spoken about this. This threat has affected practically all aspects of our life, impeding the development of the global economy and exacerbating many social problems. In addition to this, what is happening around the world remains very tense. Global security is subjected to serious trials and the system of strategic stability has noticeably deteriorated. Far from being settled, long-standing regional conflicts are flaring up with renewed force. The withdrawal of the US and their allies from Afghanistan has led to a new crisis situation, and it remains unclear how it will affect regional and global security, so it is absolutely right that our countries pay special attention to this issue. Understandably, just like its BRICS partners, Russia has consistently advocated the establishment of long-awaited peace and stability in Afghanistan, where the people have been fighting for many decades and have earned the right to independently determine what their state will be like. At the same time, we are not interested in Afghanistan remaining a threat to neighbouring countries or having terrorism and illegal drug trafficking coming from the Afghan territory threaten us. We are interested in stopping the migration flow and we want the Afghans to be able to live a peaceful and dignified life in their own country. I have mentioned many times that the current round of the crisis in Afghanistan is a direct consequence of irresponsible extraneous attempts to impose someone else’s values on the country and to build “democratic structures” using socio-political engineering techniques, ignoring the historical and national specifics of other nations and the traditions by which they live. All of that leads to nothing but destabilisation and, ultimately, chaos, after which the masterminds behind these experiments hastily retreat leaving their charges behind. The entire international community then has to face the consequences. I am convinced that peaceful progress in international relations can be guaranteed only through ensuring the existence of states with different political and social systems, their own national interests and spiritual and moral values, but with mandatory observance of the fundamental principles of international law enshrined in the UN Charter, including non-interference in internal affairs and respect for sovereignty. It is likewise important to maintain and promote mutually respectful, constructive and meaningful interaction at the global level, to strengthen the emerging multipolar system which comprises independent centres of economic growth and political influence, of which BRICS is, of course, a part. In this context, we consider very relevant the topic of our meeting and the topic of the entire year in BRICS that was chosen by our Indian partners and the Indian chairmanship which is promoting cooperation on the basis of continuity, consolidation and consensus. In fact, the entire international community is facing this challenge, and five BRICS countries are playing a significant and noticeable role in addressing it. I hope our work today will be substantive and productive. I would like to emphasise once again that Russia stands ready to continue close interaction with the BRICS countries in all areas. Thank you.
I think that this was clear enough as it was, but even so, thank you. No. No. The residents of the Far East, both the previous generation and the current one, are pioneers. Can you imagine the work that needed to be done to explore these territories, the scale of it? What personal and management qualities must there have been to achieve the results that we are seeing today? By the way, the current generations are also to a large extent explorers because many things that are being done here are being done for the first time. This spirit of exploration, the spirit of those who move forward, who aspire and achieve results is the distinctive quality of the local residents, I believe. But the development of the Far Eastern region is of huge importance to Russia, to the country. These are development prospects for not even decades but centuries ahead. If we add the Arctic to these territories, it will be even clearer why we have been paying so much attention to this region over the recent years. The Arctic comprises 18 percent of our territory; it has the world’s reserves of resources, needed not only by our country but the entire world. In this sense, we have a huge responsibility to manage these riches wisely and sustainably. This is why Russia pays so much attention to the development of the Far Eastern territories. Thank you. Mr Tokayev, we just had the pleasure of talking to each other at the launch of a fairly big joint project by Kazakhstan’s government bodies and Sberbank, or Sber Group. I would like to once again thank you, Mr President, for making a choice in favour of the Russian partner. So, Mr Tokayev, Mr Ukhnaagiin Khurelsukh, ladies and gentlemen, friends. I welcome all the participants and guests of the Eastern Economic Forum. Once again, after a break caused by the pandemic, Vladivostok welcomes company heads, businesspeople and experts from dozens of countries. I am very happy that the presidents of Kazakhstan and Mongolia accepted our invitation. They are taking part in the plenary session via videoconference, as we can see. The leaders of China, India and Thailand sent their greetings to the forum. Such broad representation and an interest in the development of the Russian Far East show that the economy is recovering and returning to its normal business mode. Russia is open to mutually beneficial partnership with all countries in the Asia-Pacific Region. I would like to note that the APR, which accounts for one third of the global GDP, has been a driver of the global economy for a long time; this is a well-known fact. The growth rates of the region’s countries invariably exceed the world’s average. Russia – and I would like to stress it even though it is obvious – Russia is an inalienable part of the APR, and we will establish in our Far Eastern regions a powerful centre for attracting capital and the new economy, create a space of opportunities for citizens to implement the most daring business ideas and projects. Let me emphasise that even under the tough conditions of the pandemic and its economic impact we did not give up the implementation of the long-tern development plans for the Far East. On the contrary, we tried to speed them up. I would like to tell you about the outcome of these efforts. At any rate, this is what I am going to start with, and also I will also talk about the new decisions that already have been adopted or are about to be adopted to strengthen the economy and the social sphere in the region. The volume of accumulated foreign direct investment in the Russian Far East has almost doubled in the past six years, reaching $80 billion. Industrial growth in the region exceeded the national average. During the same period, industrial production in the region has shown a growth rate of around 20 percent, or twice the national rate. New special mechanisms for supporting capital investment have allowed more than 2,500 residents to register in the priority development territories and the free port of Vladivostok. Sixty-eight thousand modern jobs have been created. Global projects in aviation, shipbuilding, chemical industry, gas processing and logistics have been launched in the Far Eastern regions such as the Amur Region, the Khabarovsk Territory and the Primorye Territory. This kind of diversity is gratifying. This diversification of the region’s economy cannot but inspire us to achieve new heights across all these industries. The region already had its combat aviation and we have started developing and continue to successfully develop civil aviation as well. The shipbuilding industry fell into almost total ruin after the Soviet era. Now it is experiencing a revival, based on new technologies, with new products in development and excellent long-term orders. The chemical industry is developing, not to mention the gas processing industry. I think these projects are well known. This is what the overall progress in the Russian Far East has been like, each region working on a wide variety of projects. We continue to elevate conventional industries as well – for example, developing large ore and metal deposits in Chukotka, the Trans-Baikal Territory and Buryatia. I would like to praise local management teams for improving the business climate. A great deal has been done locally and I would like to thank regional officials for that. Four Far Eastern regions were included in the top 30 of the 2020 National Investment Climate Ranking. I hope this number will continue to grow. It was zero not so long ago. We are working constantly on reinforcing guarantees and expanding opportunities for businesses all over Russia. We know very well that new advanced solutions are always in demand, especially in the Far East, a region aiming for priority development at a rate above the national average. Obviously, we need to create a competitive environment for our partners, which means that the parameters such as the tax burden, the cost of debt, the delivery and quality of government services for businesses must be competitive on a global level. As I have just said, they must be the best in the Asia-Pacific. This is an extremely difficult task but we must keep working to fulfil it. We are planning to create an unprecedented package of benefits and incentives on the Kuril Islands. We will relieve business of many taxes – profit, property, land and transport taxes for a long period of ten years. Let me emphasise that I am referring to the companies that are operating on the islands, that erect buildings, create businesses and hire employees, not those that are just registered there. These companies will also pay reduced insurance premiums of 7.6 percent for ten years. In addition, we will establish a free customs zone on the entire territory of the Kurils. It will be easier to import commodities and equipment and export finished products. No VAT will be levied within this zone before goods leave the Kurils. Let me make a reservation at this point that not all types of activities will enjoy these preferential tax incentives. They will not apply to intermediaries, the production of excisable goods, the extraction and processing of hydrocarbons or harvesting precious water bio-resources. Obviously, these activities are highly profitable as they are. I would like to emphasise that foreign investors will also be able to use these tax, customs and administrative benefits, not just domestic companies. This certainly applies to our neighbours, including our Japanese partners. We have spoken with them before about the need to create conditions for the economic development of these islands and the promotion of cooperation there. Using this opportunity, I would like to make a small digression. This year, Japan hosted the Olympics. The Paralympics will be over in the next few days. I would like to congratulate the Organising Committee, the leaders and all citizens of Japan – I know some Olympic executives and organisers personally – on holding these successful events at such a high level in difficult conditions. They created all the best conditions for the competitions and the athletes. Back to our subject, I would like to express my hope that the preferential tax incentives for businesses on the Kurils will produce tangible results for development and will be an impetus for promising projects, primarily in such areas as tourism, aquaculture and fish processing. This is important for Russia, and of course, for our citizens in the Far East to have new points of economic growth with high export potential. This should provide additional jobs and higher incomes and encourage the development of small and medium companies. Today railways, roads and sea ports in the Far East provide for a large part of Russia’s international trade, and we are working towards expanding their capacities and developing the main infrastructure, first of all, the throughput capacity of the Baikal-Amur Mainline and Trans-Siberian Railway. We have been talking a lot about this lately, and much is being done, but even more needs to be done. I would like to elaborate on the Baikal-Amur Mainline. Russia has launched this project several times. Back in the first half of the 20 th century, research was carried out and sections of the railway were constructed, but only in 1974, almost 50 years ago, did full-scale construction begin. We will definitely celebrate the 50 th anniversary of the construction of the Baikal-Amur Mainline. And today I would like to express my gratitude to the veteran construction workers who built such a necessary and, if I may say so, irreplaceable transport route for Russia in spite of its harsh climate, through the taiga and mountain ridges. Friends, you have laid a strong foundation, and now our task is to fulfil our plans to update the mainline and develop the entire Eastern railway system as scheduled and planned. I hope that we will fully execute this. What would I like to note? The volume of cargo transported via the railway and Russian sea ports is growing, which means income from exports, revenue to the budget and, in the end, additional resources that we will first allocate to address people’s social problems. However, we should not forget about the costs, environmental risks and coal dust. It is such a simple thing, but people can feel it, so it’s not a small detail. People can feel this, and not only feel, but rightly complain about such things. We have already made several decisions in this regard, including signing agreements with stevedoring companies. They require Russian ports to introduce environmentally friendly and the best available technologies for the transshipment of goods. Such technologies are being used in Russia more widely. I hope that this will be implemented in the Far Eastern region as well, as quickly as needed. I believe we should go further and add the requirements for Russian cargo ports, not only Nakhodka and Vladivostok but also Murmansk, Kaliningrad and Novorossiysk among others, to introduce continuous environmental monitoring systems at the legislative level. A shortage of construction materials is another serious problem plaguing the Far Eastern Federal District that is specific to it. A lot of construction materials have to be brought in from places that are hundreds or even thousands of kilometres away. This, of course, directly affects the speed of construction and the cost of projects not only in the infrastructure sector, but the housing sector as well. Soon we will need to scale up the production of building materials in the Far East by orders of magnitude. Among other things, we will create a modern cluster of this industry in the Khabarovsk Territory, which has the necessary resource, production and personnel base. Importantly, this cluster will serve the needs of the entire Far Eastern Federal District. I want the Government and our leading companies, including Russian Railways, Rosavtodor and other major users of building materials, to come up with proposals on this. As a matter of fact, they are in the works, if not to say that they are already available, but they must be finalised and implemented as soon as possible. We will be developing the potential of the Far East as a critical hub of global transport corridors based on a modern materials and technology base with account taken for the most stringent environmental standards, including increasing the Northern Sea Route’s capacities. I would like to note that over the past 10 years, the volume of cargo transport along this route has increased by an order of magnitude. I think I have my numbers right; sometime in 1986 a little over 7 million tonnes were shipped, last year it was 33 million tonnes, and by 2024, this figure should be 80 million tonnes. I am positive that these are not the final figures. Literally before the plenary session – I just saw our colleagues, the moderators of the sessions that are taking place as part of the forum – a proposal was made to launch a container shipping line along the Northern Sea Route on a regular year-round basis. I have already expressed my opinion there, and I This has not changed our approach with regard to our interest in concluding the peace treaty. We believe that the absence of the peace treaty in our relations is absurd. Moreover, both Russia and Japan are interested in the complete and absolute normalisation of relations, considering our mutual strategic interest in developing cooperation. We have always insisted on the need to respect the results enshrined in international documents, the results of World War II. We have never rejected a dialogue on the peace treaty. We agreed with the former Prime Minister that we were ready to rely on the well-known documents from the 1950s, but our Japanese partners kept changing their mind. I have spoken about this many times, but I We need to look closely at this declaration, and we need to look closely at the amended Constitution and draw the appropriate conclusions. We must always understand the reasons behind any phenomenon, that is the right thing to do; but it is wrong to politicise all of this. Yes, of course. When things start to get politicised, it erodes trust in the conclusions drawn based on a politicised approach, because there is a feeling that we are far from the truth. All these investigations should be based on objective information. It is good that the US intelligence agencies have come to that conclusion, but it would have been better to do so earlier. And it is even more important, in my view, to fight to overcome the pandemic and its impact together, without political bias. This is critical for all humankind. In this context, I would like to note one thing. Those who politicise are making colossal, and I would say catastrophic, mistakes in combatting the pandemic. What do I mean? After all, first, the vaccination opportunities are mainly concentrated in highly developed economies, where the bulk of vaccines are produced, and vaccination is aimed at protecting their own population. Very little is done, and I mean very little, to protect humankind more broadly. And this is bad for the producers. Why? Because it is boomeranging around the Earth all the time. For example, Africa has the lowest level of protection and vaccination, and while there are contacts with African countries, there is no escaping the virus. This disease will constantly reemerge from there. This is what I wanted to say first. Second, there are humanitarian things. All the time, we hear from our colleagues from the West that it is necessary to humanise international relations. And where is this humanisation? It is not seen in lifting pandemic-related restrictions, at least in the sphere of distributing medicines, such as vaccines, and helping countries in need. For example, Iran. I do not want to go into details on policy, but the country needs help and no restrictions are being lifted, not a single one. It has not even been discussed. Not to mention other countries. Take Venezuela. Policy is one thing, and humanitarian aid is another. You have to be consistent if you want to be trusted. The same thing is true for the economy. The economy is recovering faster in the countries using financial tools associated with pumping in cash and deficit spending than in other regions of the world. It would be wise to help developing economies. But nothing is done yet. Look at the level of deficits in the world’s I visited the university’s training centre. You should have paid attention to the rest of this remark. I said that we welcomed such interest. It is important to remember that we are following the developments in other countries that are concerned about Russia actively developing the NSR. They are assuming that we are planning to restrict certain countries. Such assumptions are divorced from reality. We will not restrict anyone. Moreover, we want this work to strictly conform to the international law of the sea – the 1982 Convention and another document on the Arctic, if I am correct. We adhere to these fundamental documents and intend to do so in the future. We are fine with this. We are happy to point out that the most economically beneficial and safe NSR passage is through Russian territorial waters, our internal seas. What objections could we have to this? We are fine with it. And the more this routing is used by all interested parties, the better. We welcome interest from India, China, and other Asian and European countries in this cooperation. I believe we will repeatedly return to this issue in the Arctic Council, which I mentioned and that we are currently chairing. During the meeting with President Joe Biden in Geneva, we discussed this issue in detail. Maybe not quite in detail but we paid much attention to it. I hope all our partners from Canada, Denmark and other countries will display interest in this and that all of them will be willing to cooperate in the process rather than seek yet another venue for dispute and confrontation. If it takes place in the usual format. We will have to wait and see. First, we must live to see 2024. As you know, pandemics are surrounding us on all sides. So, we must keep working rather than think about such major international events that will take place in a few years. I know, I know. This is why I am saying that we must live calmly to see this time. Yes, I will. They work well in their positions. My colleagues just asked if they could head the list, demonstrating that everything the United Russia party is doing is actually put into action, including through the efforts of these people. They are the ones to take the decision. Ultimately is it for them to decide. Why not? Certainly. I fully expect it because I think that the current situation is absolutely abnormal and unnatural, and sooner or later – and preferably sooner, the sooner the better – we will fully restore our relations with Ukraine. It depends not on Russia but on the Ukrainian people and the voters in Ukraine. They should assess the level, the quality and the results of the work done by those whom they voted for. And if President Zelensky is elected and pursues his policy of normalising relations with Russia, not in words but in deeds, then why not? Of course, yes. Alas, in reality it is just the opposite. In reality, this is not the first generation of Ukrainian politicians that has come to power with slogans of restoring relations with Russia and resolving all the issues that accumulated over the previous years and later shamelessly deceived their voters and radically reoriented their actual policy. This happens under the pressure of extreme nationalists. It looks like newly elected leaders, after they enter high office, begin to fear that part of Ukrainian society and do everything to satisfy their ambitions. The results of this we can see in the economic and social conditions in Ukraine. Well, the second hypothesis is simple. He did not kill him and did not pass by that place. And if he did pass by, he did not stop. With regard to building a church, especially given the occasion, I think it is absolutely necessary to receive the blessing of Patriarch Kirill of Moscow and All Russia before doing so. Who is he? About what? Frankly, I know nothing about it. You don’t say! I was dealing with the day’s work and getting ready for today’s event and holding other events. Frankly, I did not even know that, so I am not ready … Why should that bother me? On the contrary, it can only please me. Young people know the history of their Fatherland well. It is great, and I am pleased to know that. As for the Seven Years’ War or the Twenty Years’ War. In fact, it began in 1700, after Peter the Great joined the alliance of countries organised, among others, by Frederick II, the Saxon-Polish king, who, by the way, later slightly revised the originally stated goals. The Battle of Poltava took place, if my memory serves, in the late autumn of 1709. This was a watershed, after which everything started going Russia’s way and in favour of Russia. So, it was not seven years, it was eight and a half years, after all. The Battle of Narva , where Russia was defeated, took place in the spring, if I am not mistaken, and the Battle of Poltava was in late autumn. So it took eight and a half years. We can safely assume that everything was done during these eight years, not seven, but eight. It does not matter to me whatsoever. Your question caught me off guard and I find it strange, but there was something that made me call this war the Seven Years’ War, although, of course, it formally ended in 1721. It is great and we can only rejoice knowing that the Okean Centre has brought together knowledgeable schoolchildren and, importantly, that they freely speak their mind in the moment. Listen, this should tell us that Russia’s future is in good hands. Yes, there is this feeling sometimes. I think your apprehensions are based on certain grounds. Part of the reason is that some economies and some countries want to deprive others of their competitive advantages. This is why the European Union is talking about a kind of environmental tax, if I can put it that way. Of course, we are interested in cooperation on preserving nature and preventing this disastrous climate change. That said we do not accept the suggested rules that obviously contradict WTO standards. So, we are following these discussions closely and will cooperate with our partners in all regions, including the EU. We understand that for now this is not a consensus position. Government experts in many leading EU countries realise that the declared initial approach is unfair and does not conform to international legal standards. Let me repeat that we will work very carefully with everyone. Unfortunately, this very important goal of countering climate change is often used to pursue some current economic goals. It reflects a striving to reshape the energy market. Many countries are using it in their domestic political agenda. We have just heard about the nuclear power industry development. Do nuclear power plants produce any emissions? No, they do not. Some of our colleagues in our partner countries even suggest that the nuclear power industry capabilities should not be included in the calculations related to environmental well-being, along with the hydroelectric power industry. Nuclear and hydroelectric energy industries comprise up to 40 percent of Russia’s power generation nationwide, which is a substantial figure. We have to follow the development of technologies closely. As you said, we can produce hydrogen from natural gas or coal, but today this process is expensive. You have mentioned that green hydrogen is 7 or even 8 times more expensive… All right, let’s say six times. But technology is advancing. Today it is six times more expensive but tomorrow it may be six times less expensive, so we have to follow this closely. If you ask our experts or Government representatives involved in this, we have the Energy Minister present here – I cannot see Deputy Prime Minister Novak, is he here? We discuss all these issues with him on a regular basis and in detail. Not only do we follow what is taking place globally in this sector, but we also take the necessary efforts to avoid lagging behind and to maintain our leadership positions in the energy sector in general and the energy industry of the future, in particular. This is not a sharp increase – just the opposite, the depopulation and outflow have decreased. They do, but once again, the outflow has slowed down. And in certain sectors, where good enterprises are set up, we can even see an inflow – such as the Zvezda shipyard, which has a shortage of specialists. Exactly. It has a shortage of specialists and they are coming here from other Russian regions. This is how it should be done – we need such projects to attract people by providing them with good, interesting and financially rewarding work that offers great prospects, instead of slogans. This is the aim of the Eastern Economic Forum – to seek and implement such projects. I would like to say that we never had such dry docks like the one that has been built here, not even during the Soviet era. Even the Soviet Union could not boast such shipbuilding achievements, but Russia can now, and hopefully, this will advance further. In addition, as I mentioned in my introductory remarks, we must create favourable living conditions for people. This work should be done in parallel, and the government must certainly play its role, and a crucial role at that – in housing construction, healthcare, education, and a whole scope of social measures that are already underway, and we will boost these efforts further. I have mentioned some of them earlier. No, I do not think we can blame the municipal authorities for everything because their financial resources are limited. We will soon have to go back to the issue of distributing government resources at various governance levels – federal, regional and municipal. In fact, the entire Russian Far East used to be a closed territory, and Vladivostok was a closed city just a short while ago. So, there is a lot left from the Soviet legacy, when the social sector stood idle , while residential areas – not the towns and villages, but residential buildings – were erected around enterprises. This process went on for decades, and there is nothing we can do about it now. It is the legacy we have inherited. Do we have the right to throw stones at our predecessors? Look, people used to work in the most difficult conditions and yet they implemented tremendously challenging tasks. True, they worked fast. But this is not just about Vladivostok, or other cities, towns or villages. We only have to thank those people for what they managed to achieve under such hard conditions and with such limited resources. It is true, today we must make use of what we have and advance through utilising a new industrial, technological and scientific basis to address the new tasks that the entire region and the country are facing. I have also mentioned the need to modernise towns and villages in the Far East. Frankly, I even drew up a list of these towns and villages. I did not mention this because first we need to initiate and implement this work, and only then can we talk about it. But I spoke about what we are planning to do. I have the list of these villages and towns; I mentioned only two of them and they are in a poor condition and deserve much better – especially since their residents include people who were involved in the Baikal-Amur Mainline construction. We are now starting the renovation of this major Russian transport artery. So we have to take every effort in this regard and work on the whole complex of tasks. Representatives of the business community should influence the situation in the communities where they are operating , while the government should take the necessary efforts to improve the external situation and provide for a better social environment. I This is a challenging, comprehensive and strategic yet achievable task, and efficient efforts of the past several years only prove that we are on the right track. This is the responsibility of the United Nations and its Security Council, including its five permanent members. But, you know, this is a very good opportunity for some to rant about the events in Afghanistan as well as about US policy. This is a catastrophe, it’s true – and these are not my words, this is what American analysts are saying. It is a catastrophe, because the Americans, a highly pragmatic nation, spent over $1.5 trillion on the campaign over these years – but received zero result. And if we look at the number of people left in Afghanistan who worked for the collective West – the United States and its allies – this is a humanitarian catastrophe as well. Hopefully, a realisation will come that actions based on previous stances, which aimed to ‘civilise’ other nations and bring to them elements of the modern civilisation in line with ideas and concepts of those who impose them, is a misguided policy. Actually, as to Afghanistan, I have heard many of our colleagues saying, “This was a mistake, we made the wrong choice, and we should not do so in the future.” But this has been a typical policy since the so-called enlightenment missions of Catholic priests, who arrived, say, in Asian countries or China and ‘civilised’ the local residents, based on some achievements in natural sciences, education and medicine, but the main goal was to promote Catholicism rather than educate people. There are hardly any changes. However, it is not a spiritual or economic colonisation going on but rather attempts to maintain their influence under the pretext of promoting democracy. Meanwhile, if a certain nation needs democracy, people will arrive at it by themselves, it shouldn’t be imposed on them by violent means. At the same time from the point of view of technology, if we try to understand the developments, the Soviet troops also withdrew but they did it in an organised manner. This is number one. Second. The regime that remains in that country existed for several years after the Soviet troop withdrawal. It is unclear how the situation in Afghanistan would have unfolded if the Soviet Union had not stopped rendering at least the economic assistance before the Soviet Union broke up. Chances are the parties to the conflict could have come to some agreement. But how are the Americans withdrawing? Via airlifts. Whereas the Soviet troops marched towards their border. It is a different story. And it was easier for the USSR in this respect, of course. Is this the end of some Western hegemony? You see, the point is that these lessons – and there are lessons – should be understood correctly and adjustments should be made to real politics. They say about Afghanistan, “We got there, we made a lot of mistakes there”, whereas the same is going on with regard to other nations. What are sanctions? It is the continuation of the same policy of imposing their standards. Russia is not the point. The point is there are other countries, including in the Asia Pacific, in Latin America and across the entire globe. If some major conclusions were made, then we might witness some major changes in global politics. Whether it is the end of domineering or not depends primarily on the economic potential of the countries in the international arena. Well, let’s hope so. First, let us not forget that the United States introduced its troops into Afghanistan after the heinous terrorist attacks on the International Trade Centre in New York. This entire operation was aimed at countering terrorism. Now the reality is such that the Taliban controls practically the entire territory of Afghanistan with the exception of Panjshir and small northern areas adjacent to Tajikistan. Today, the Taliban is in control. If this is the case, we must proceed from reality. Of course, I agree with the President of Kazakhstan and many other colleagues, and I have discussed this with many of them recently, we must understand what stands behind the statements made by the Taliban leaders. But I would like to draw your attention to one point. It was with a reason that I pointed out that the US brought its troops after the terrorist attacks on New York. The Taliban is not a homogenous movement, although it mostly consists of Pashtun tribes. This is perfectly obvious and I fully agree with my colleague from Kazakhstan. There are many representatives of other organisations in Afghanistan, including extremist groups like ISIS. Many people have been released from prisons, as you have just said, and there are radicals among them. This is what I thought about in this context. Russia is not interested in Afghanistan’s disintegration, and if it happens, there will be nobody to talk to. If this is the case, we must realise that the sooner the Taliban joins the family of civilised nations, the easier it will be to communicate with it and influence it, ask certain questions and suggest, if not demand, that they observe certain civilised rules in the framework of these civilised relations. In the event of disintegration, there will be nobody to talk to. There is the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan and a host of others in Afghanistan and all this threatens our allies and neighbours. Considering we have no visa restrictions and the movement across the borders is free, this is very important for us, for ensuring Russia’s security. All of us must pool our efforts now in order to counter these problems together. A As you know, unfortunately, fewer and fewer countries want to host the Olympics. First, it is an expensive undertaking and, second, it is difficult these days due to the need to counter the pandemic and infectious diseases. There are many other factors as well. You saw that during the preparations and holding of the Games there were many protests in Japan. Its residents protested against the hosting of the Games. But we have always supported the Olympic movement and I hope its principles will not be distorted or mixed with politics. If everything will be as I say, we do not rule out the possibility of hosting the Olympics in the Russian Federation. The Far East and Vladivostok are promising venues, but it is too early to talk about it. We should first calculate everything, although holding major international political and sports events always promoted the development of the host region. Today we are meeting on the territory of the Far Eastern Federal University. It was built during the preparations for an APEC summit. We could have held this summit in Moscow or St Petersburg. They have ready venues and it would not have taken as much time and money to hold it there. However, I decided to hold it here and build this complex for the development of the education system. I do not regret anything and think it was the right thing to do. In addition, we built a new airport and a railway that links the airport with the city centre, and did many other things. This provided an impetus for the development of Vladivostok. In general, if we take the opportunity and conduct major sports competitions, they will further promote the development of the city and the region as a whole. I do not rule it out. But the necessary conditions must be created for that. As I said, Russia must be a full-fledged participant in major international competitions but this does not depend on us. It depends on those who politicise international sports. I hope we have enough unifying venues, such as art, sports and the fight against common challenges to be guided by common interests rather than some selfish political considerations. As per tradition, I would like to thank our moderator and all participants in our session for coming to Vladivostok. You devoted much time to this. Thank you for thinking about implementing your projects in the Far East. I hope they will be successful. For its part, the state will do everything it can for this purpose. Thank you. See also Signing documents during Eastern Economic Forum September 3, 2021 Meeting with moderators of the Eastern Economic Forum’s main sessions September 3, 2021 Geography Primorye Territory Topics Economy and finance Foreign policy Regions Persons Tokayev Kassym-
Colleagues, good afternoon. Mr Tokayev, friends, Today, we have a very positive and important event on the sidelines of the Eastern Economic Forum. Kazakhstan and Sber, a Russian group, are signing a Memorandum of Cooperation on the digital transformation of public administration in the Republic of Kazakhstan. First of all, I would like to thank the President of Kazakhstan in person. I am aware that Mr Tokayev personally oversees matters of this kind, and pays a lot of attention to modern high technology. We have discussed this subject with you on a number of occasions, and I would like to thank you for choosing a Russian company as a strategic partner. I know that the President was involved in the decision made by the Government of Kazakhstan to choose Sber’s offer as the best option. This reaffirms once again that one of our leading digital companies is effective and relevant, including on the international markets. In fact, Sber has been working for more than 15 years in Kazakhstan on financial and digital services and technology. Today’s ceremony marks another step in reinforcing this cooperation. Sber will supply software for digitising public services as part of this project. By the way, it has been quite effective in Russia. I really hope that the cooperation that is about to take off will be fruitful and will yield tangible results, further strengthening the comprehensive creative partnership between our countries and peoples. I wish you every success! Thank you very much. .  . I would like to comment on what is happening. An entire range of important agreements and memorandums are traditionally signed on the sidelines of the forum. We just witnessed the signing of a series of such agreements, among them the Agreement of Intent on the Implementation of the Second Stage of the Udokan Copper Deposit Development Project, aimed at multiplying the ore throughput. Some 289 billion rubles will be invested in this promising project and over 2,000 new jobs will be created It is crucially important to develop the social sphere, including the infrastructure for children’s recreation and resorts in the Far East. As we just saw, the trilateral agreement to establish such a centre in the Khabarovsk Territory was signed. The total cost of the construction will be some 2.3 billion rubles. It will accommodate 300–350 children per one session who will be able to recreate, improve their health and take part in interesting educational programmes. It’s really a wonderful project. The memorandum on building methanol-powered vessels is also worth noting. The parties to this agreement are the Ministry for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic, VTB Bank, VEB, ESN Group, as well as representatives of the Japanese companies Mitsui and Marubeni. The Agreement on the Comprehensive Development of Fisheries Logistics in Russia is also important. It was signed between VEB, the Corporation for the Development of the Far East and the Arctic and the managing company of Ryba Corporation. A total of 52 billion rubles will be invested in the project. Over the next three years,
Mr Prime Minister, my dear friend, Mr Modi, ladies and gentlemen, Let me thank you, Mr Prime Minister, for the fact that you, as someone who is currently holding the UN Security Council presidency, convened this Security Council meeting to discuss an important and sensitive topic, namely, modern challenges and threats in maritime security. Your initiative is in line with the constructive role that India has traditionally played in the international arena, thus contributing to the promotion of multifaceted, mutually beneficial and equitable cooperation. The seas and oceans have always connected people and civilisations. Unfortunately, sea routes are fraught with many threats. That is why it is important that today we are reviewing substantive practical matters related to fighting “21 st century piracy” meaning to establish a more effective counteraction to transnational crime and prevent the use of seas and oceans for criminal purposes. As you, Mr Prime Minister, aptly mentioned in your remarks, for us to achieve meaningful success in this area, we must unite the efforts of all stakeholders, as well as international organisations and regional associations with the central coordinating role of the UN and the UN Security Council. I have said it more than once and now, addressing the Security Council members, and I would like to reiterate that Russia stands for strict observance of the key norms and principles of international law enshrined in the UN Charter, such as respect for sovereignty, non-interference in internal affairs and resolution of disputes by way of dialogue. I hope that the participants in our debates will agree that the UN principles are mandatory in the sphere of peaceful and responsible use of marine spaces, their natural resources, protection of the marine environment, and sustainable economic activity in the vast swathes of our planet covered by water. As a leading maritime power, Russia is doing much to preserve and strengthen the international legal order as it applies to maritime security. Our country is strongly involved in activities covering the entire range of these issues both at the UN and as part of numerous regional formats, including the Contact Group on Piracy off the Coast of Somalia, the ASEAN Regional Forum and East Asian summits. Russia is also interested in building productive cooperation with the Indian Ocean Rim Association and the Indian Ocean Commission. And, of course, we are trying to help ensure security in the Persian Gulf zone and the Gulf of Guinea in the Atlantic, where cases of sea banditry with hostage taking have become more frequent. The specific nature of the situation is that it is really difficult for some countries to defend themselves from international criminal syndicates, pirates and terrorists. This is why there is the matter of uniting the power potential of all the interested countries’ special services and corresponding troops under the auspices of the UN. Russia is ready to further share its experience in antiterrorist operations as well as in preventing crime, and identifying and eliminating bandit groups, including at sea. We believe it would be useful to regularly exchange insights and best practices in countering terrorism, armed robbery and criminal activities at sea. In this context, it would be feasible to think about establishing a special structure within the UN that would directly address problems related to combatting maritime crime in various regions. At the same time, this body would rest on UN member states’ support and actively involve experts, representatives of civil society, researchers and even private businesses in its work. We hope that our partners would consider Russia’s proposal constructively. In conclusion I would like to reaffirm that the Russian Federation is committed to the common task of countering crime at sea in all its forms. We are ready to further promote the development of equal international cooperation in this area. I would like once again thank our Indian friends for this useful initiative to hold this meeting today and to wish India continued success in implementing its functions as president of the United Nations Security Council this month. Colleagues, thank you for your attention.
I decided to prepare this material a while ago, actually. I have been thinking about it for several months now. The title of this material, or “article,” is just a convention because it is still a bit more than just an article. It is analytical material based on historical facts, events and historical documents. Why did I have this idea at all? In our daily lives, we work, bring up our children, go for a hobby. As a rule, we do not think much about the issues in this article. However, the situation required that we look more attentively at the world we live in, who we are, and what relations we have with our closest relatives and neighbours. So, this idea came about in this context. But why did I start it at this particular time? Because the conditions that are taking shape are fundamentally different from what they were only recently. There is every indication that an anti-Russia agenda is being pursued, and of course, this is bound to be of concern to us. Yes, of course, every country has the right to choose its own way, no question. But, you know, it is the same as with every person. He is free but there is a well- I do not divide people into “them” and “us.” In the article I also write that we are a common entity, and so it is intended for all of us, including those who live in modern Russia, those who live in modern Ukraine and the sponsors of the current political leadership of Ukraine. They should also know what we are and what we think about each other. I believe that this is important for all of us. I said frankly in the article that the most dangerous time bomb is the right of the Soviet republics to freely secede from the united country. I would like to say that when the Soviet Union was born after the First World War, even the Bolshevik leadership was divided on that matter. I did not write about this in detail in my article, because I believe that such details would be superfluous. However, Stalin, who was responsible for this sphere of activities in the Bolshevik party, had major differences with Lenin. Stalin insisted on the principle of autonomisation during the creation of the Soviet Union, believing that all the other Soviet republics that were established in the former empire must be incorporated, yes, incorporated, into the RSFSR. Lenin had a different perspective. He spoke about the equality of all the republics, which should not be incorporated into the Russian Federation , but should establish new states on equal conditions with it. Stalin described this as national liberalism and openly argued with Lenin. Incidentally, if we read some documents, we will see that Lenin’s position was that Stalin was ultimately right, but it was premature to speak about that. And Lenin made concessions to the national republics, as Stalin described this. Stalin himself said that Russian federalism was a period of transition to socialist centrism. Actually, this is what the Bolsheviks really did, because the Soviet Union, which was formally a federation, or possibly even a confederation if we take into account the right to secede, essentially was an extremely unitary centralised state. The right to secede was, of course, one of the time bombs. And the second time bomb, which I also mentioned, was the leading role of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, its directing and primary role. Why? Because it turned out that the party was the only thing that kept the entire country together as a single state. As I wrote in the article, as soon as the party started to fall apart from the inside, the whole country shattered. There were other time bombs as well. Perhaps we will talk about this later on. Of course, not. The details are all in there. The project started back in the 17 th and 18 th centuries in the Polish‒Lithuanian Commonwealth. It was later exploited by the Polish national movement and, before World War I, it was used by the Austro-Hungarian Empire. The goal was quite simple, as I No, of course, not. You know, in the Soviet times there were attempts to eradicate religiousness among our people. Did they succeed? When the Great Patriotic War broke out, during his speech on the radio, Vyacheslav Molotov addressed the nation as “fellow citizens.” But Joseph Stalin, who spoke after we all realised the looming catastrophe of the war started by Nazi Germany, addressed the nation as “brothers and sisters.” This is what people call each other in church. Later, the patriarchate was restored. Today, the church plays its well-deserved role in society. It is not gone; the triunity of our people has never been and will never be gone, no matter how hard they try using the same schemes as in the 17 th and 18 th centuries. I talked about this with the President of Belarus. He said that when he plays hockey and team members get angry because somebody makes a mistake, This does not imply our intersecting paths but, rather, interdependent and interwoven destinies of millions of people living in contemporary Ukraine and contemporary Russia. This amounts to the historical and spiritual interweaving of our peoples that took centuries to evolve. What the incumbent authorities are saying has nothing to do with the people. The authorities are talking about their own personal choice. But this does not necessarily mean that this choice is final. Going back to your first question as to why this material appeared precisely now, I would address the matter from another angle. This material appeared following the drafting and enactment of the law on indigenous peoples. I will repeat the gist of the matter. The law declares Russian people living on historical Russian territories to be aliens. In effect, the authorities are beginning to expel them from this territory. This is what is happening. So, this was one of the factors that motivated me to write the article. As to whom all this is addressed to, and what I had in mind when I was talking about what we have just mentioned, I If they want to have a discussion, I think they should take a break, read the article carefully, analyse it and review some of the archival material. I think this is exactly what they will do and they will find something to talk about. When I say “they” I mean the political leadership of today’s Ukraine. These debates have been going on for a long time now. It is hard to argue with this article because it is honest and it is in fact based on historical documents. They may be subject to different interpretations, it is true. But the basis for the article is historical archives. What can I say about the gas issue? Russia, Gazprom, we signed a five-year contract to deliver a certain amount of Russian natural gas to our consumers in Europe via Ukraine. The Normandy format and other similar formats are political platforms for discussing the situation in southeastern Ukraine. They have nothing to do with commercial projects like Nord Stream or Nord Stream 2 or the transit of our gas through the territory of Ukraine. Despite all the current difficulties, Russia undertook certain obligations under this contract and will fully meet them. It does not only depend on us. On the international stage, building a certain type of relationship even between the closest neighbours is always a compromise. It is not our goal to force anybody into adopting a certain model. We are looking for a compromise. Here is what I
Events Article by Vladimir Putin ”On the Historical Unity of Russians and Ukrainians“ July 12, 2021 17:00 During the recent Direct Line, when I was asked about Russian-Ukrainian relations, I said that Russians and Ukrainians were one people – a single whole. These words were not driven by some short-term considerations or prompted by the current political context. It is what I have said on numerous occasions and what I firmly believe. I therefore feel it necessary to explain my position in detail and share my assessments of today's situation. First of all, I would like to emphasize that the wall that has emerged in recent years between Russia and Ukraine, between the parts of what is essentially the same historical and spiritual space, to my mind is our great common misfortune and tragedy. These are, first and foremost, the consequences of our own mistakes made at different periods of time. But these are also the result of deliberate efforts by those forces that have always sought to undermine our unity. The formula they apply has been known from time immemorial – divide and rule. There is nothing new here. Hence the attempts to play on the ”national question“ and sow discord among people, the overarching goal being to divide and then to pit the parts of a single people against one another. To have a better understanding of the present and look into the future, we need to turn to history. Certainly, it is impossible to cover in this article all the developments that have taken place over more than a thousand years. But I will focus on the key, pivotal moments that are important for us to remember, both in Russia and Ukraine. Russians, Ukrainians, and Belarusians are all descendants of Ancient Rus, which was the largest state in Europe. Slavic and other tribes across the vast territory – from Ladoga, Novgorod, and Pskov to Kiev and Chernigov – were bound together by one language , economic ties, the rule of the princes of the Rurik dynasty, and – after the baptism of Rus – the Orthodox faith. The spiritual choice made by St. Vladimir, who was both Prince of Novgorod and Grand Prince of Kiev, still largely determines our affinity today. The throne of Kiev held a dominant position in Ancient Rus. This had been the custom since the late 9th century. The Tale of Bygone Years captured for posterity the words of Oleg the Prophet about Kiev, ”Let it be the mother of all Russian cities.“ Later, like other European states of that time, Ancient Rus faced a decline of central rule and fragmentation. At the same time, both the nobility and the common people perceived Rus as a common territory, as their homeland. The fragmentation intensified after Batu Khan's devastating invasion, which ravaged many cities, including Kiev. The northeastern part of Rus fell under the control of the Golden Horde but retained limited sovereignty. The southern and western Russian lands largely became part of the Grand Duchy of Lithuania, which – most significantly – was referred to in historical records as the Grand Duchy of Lithuania and Russia. Members of the princely and ”boyar“ clans would change service from one prince to another, feuding with each other but also making friendships and alliances. Voivode Bobrok of Volyn and the sons of Grand Duke of Lithuania Algirdas – Andrey of Polotsk and Dmitry of Bryansk – fought next to Grand Duke Dmitry Ivanovich of Moscow on the Kulikovo field. At the same time, Grand Duke of Lithuania Jogaila – son of the Princess of Tver – led his troops to join with Mamai. These are all pages of our shared history, reflecting its complex and multi-dimensional nature. Most importantly, people both in the western and eastern Russian lands spoke the same language. Their faith was Orthodox. Up to the middle of the 15th century, the unified church government remained in place. At a new stage of historical development, both Lithuanian Rus and Moscow Rus could have become the points of attraction and consolidation of the territories of Ancient Rus. It so happened that Moscow became the center of reunification, continuing the tradition of ancient Russian statehood. Moscow princes – the descendants of Prince Alexander Nevsky – cast off the foreign yoke and began gathering the Russian lands. In the Grand Duchy of Lithuania, other processes were unfolding. In the 14th century, Lithuania's ruling elite converted to Catholicism. In the 16th century, it signed the Union of Lublin with the Kingdom of Poland to form the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth. The Polish Catholic nobility received considerable land holdings and privileges in the territory of Rus. In accordance with the 1596 Union of Brest, part of the western Russian Orthodox clergy submitted to the authority of the Pope. The process of Polonization and Latinization began, ousting Orthodoxy. As a consequence, in the 16–17th centuries, the liberation movement of the Orthodox population was gaining strength in the Dnieper region. The events during the times of Hetman Bohdan Khmelnytsky became a turning point. His supporters struggled for autonomy from the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth. In its 1649 appeal to the king of the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth, the Zaporizhian Host demanded that the rights of the Russian Orthodox population be respected, that the voivode of Kiev be Russian and of Greek faith, and that the persecution of the churches of God be stopped. But the Cossacks were not heard. Bohdan Khmelnytsky then made appeals to Moscow, which were considered by the Zemsky Sobor. On 1 October 1653, members of the supreme representative body of the Russian state decided to support their brothers in faith and take them under patronage. In January 1654, the Pereyaslav Council confirmed that decision. Subsequently, the ambassadors of Bohdan Khmelnytsky and Moscow visited dozens of cities, including Kiev, whose populations swore allegiance to the Russian tsar. Incidentally, nothing of the kind happened at the conclusion of the Union of Lublin. In a letter to Moscow in 1654, Bohdan Khmelnytsky thanked Tsar Aleksey Mikhaylovich for taking ”the whole Zaporizhian Host and the whole Russian Orthodox world under the strong and high hand of the Tsar“. It means that, in their appeals to both the Polish king and the Russian tsar, the Cossacks referred to and defined themselves as Russian Orthodox people. Over the course of the protracted war between the Russian state and the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth, some of the hetmans, successors of Bohdan Khmelnytsky, would ”detach themselves“ from Moscow or seek support from Sweden, Poland, or Turkey. But, again, for the people, that was a war of liberation. It ended with the Truce of Andrusovo in 1667. The final outcome was sealed by the Treaty of Perpetual Peace in 1686. The Russian state incorporated the city of Kiev and the lands on the left bank of the Dnieper River, including Poltava region, Chernigov region, and Zaporozhye. Their inhabitants were reunited with the main part of the Russian Orthodox people. These territories were referred to as ”Malorossia“ . The name ”Ukraine“ was used more often in the meaning of the Old Russian word ”okraina“ , which is found in written sources from the 12th century, referring to various border territories. And the word ”Ukrainian“, judging by archival documents, originally referred to frontier guards who protected the external borders. On the right bank, which remained under the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth, the old orders were restored, and social and religious oppression intensified. On the contrary, the lands on the left bank, taken under the protection of the unified state, saw rapid development. People from the other bank of the Dnieper moved here en masse. They sought support from people who spoke the same language and had the same faith. During the Great Northern War with Sweden, the people in Malorossia were not faced with a choice of whom to side with. Only a small portion of the Cossacks supported Mazepa's rebellion. People of all orders and degrees considered themselves Russian and Orthodox. Cossack senior officers belonging to the nobility would reach the heights of political, diplomatic, and military careers in Russia. Graduates of Kiev-Mohyla Academy played a leading role in church life. This was also the case during the Hetmanate – an essentially autonomous state formation with a special internal structure – and later in the Russian Empire. Malorussians in many ways helped build a big common country – its statehood, culture, and science. They participated in the exploration and development of the Urals, Siberia, the Caucasus, and the Far East. Incidentally, during the Soviet period, natives of Ukraine held major, including the highest, posts in the leadership of the unified state. Suffice it to say that Nikita Khrushchev and Leonid Brezhnev, whose party biography was most closely associated with Ukraine, led the Communist Party of the Soviet Union  for almost 30 years. In the second half of the 18th century, following the wars with the Ottoman Empire, Russia incorporated Crimea and the lands of the Black Sea region, which became known as Novorossiya. They were populated by people from all of the Russian provinces. After the partitions of the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth, the Russian Empire regained the western Old Russian lands, with the exception of Galicia and Transcarpathia, which became part of the Austrian – and later Austro-Hungarian – Empire. The incorporation of the western Russian lands into the single state was not merely the result of political and diplomatic decisions. It was underlain by the common faith, shared cultural traditions, and – I would like to emphasize it once again – language similarity. Thus, as early as the beginning of the 17th century, one of the hierarchs of the Uniate Church, Joseph Rutsky, communicated to Rome that people in Moscovia called Russians from the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth their brothers, that their written language was absolutely identical, and differences in the vernacular were insignificant. He drew an analogy with the residents of Rome and Bergamo. These are, as we know, the center and the north of modern Italy. Many centuries of fragmentation and living within different states naturally brought about regional language peculiarities, resulting in the emergence of dialects. The vernacular enriched the literary language. Ivan Kotlyarevsky, Grigory Skovoroda, and Taras Shevchenko played a huge role here. Their works are our common literary and cultural heritage. Taras Shevchenko wrote poetry in the Ukrainian language, and prose mainly in Russian. The books of Nikolay Gogol, a Russian patriot and native of Poltavshchyna, are written in Russian, bristling with Malorussian folk sayings and motifs. How can this heritage be divided between Russia and Ukraine? And why do it? The south-western lands of the Russian Empire, Malorussia and Novorossiya, and the Crimea developed as ethnically and religiously diverse entities. Crimean Tatars, Armenians, Greeks, Jews, Karaites, Krymchaks, Bulgarians, Poles, Serbs, Germans, and other peoples lived here. They all preserved their faith, traditions, and customs. I am not going to idealise anything. We do know there were the Valuev Circular of 1863 an then the Ems Ukaz of 1876, which restricted the publication and importation of religious and socio-political literature in the Ukrainian language. But it is important to be mindful of the historical context. These decisions were taken against the backdrop of dramatic events in Poland and the desire of the leaders of the Polish national movement to exploit the ”Ukrainian issue“ to their own advantage. I should add that works of fiction, books of Ukrainian poetry and folk songs continued to be published. There is objective evidence that the Russian Empire was witnessing an active process of development of the Malorussian cultural identity within the greater Russian nation, which united the Velikorussians, the Malorussians and the Belorussians. At the same time, the idea of Ukrainian people as a nation separate from the Russians started to form and gain ground among the Polish elite and a part of the Malorussian intelligentsia. Since there was no historical basis – and could not have been any, conclusions were substantiated by all sorts of concoctions, which went as far as to claim that the Ukrainians are the true Slavs and the Russians, the Muscovites, are not. Such ”hypotheses“ became increasingly used for political purposes as a tool of rivalry between European states. Since the late 19th century, the Austro-Hungarian authorities had latched onto this narrative, using it as a counterbalance to the Polish national movement and pro-Muscovite sentiments in Galicia. During World War I, Vienna played a role in the formation of the so-called Legion of Ukrainian Sich Riflemen. Galicians suspected of sympathies with Orthodox Christianity and Russia were subjected to brutal repression and thrown into the concentration camps of Thalerhof and Terezin. Further developments had to do with the collapse of European empires, the fierce civil war that broke out across the vast territory of the former Russian Empire, and foreign intervention. After the February Revolution, in March 1917, the Central Rada was established in Kiev, intended to become the organ of supreme power. In November 1917, in its Third Universal, it declared the creation of the Ukrainian People's Republic  as part of Russia. In December 1917, UPR representatives arrived in Brest-Litovsk, where Soviet Russia was negotiating with Germany and its allies. At a meeting on 10 January 1918, the head of the Ukrainian delegation read out a note proclaiming the independence of Ukraine. Subsequently, the Central Rada proclaimed Ukraine independent in its Fourth Universal. The declared sovereignty did not last long. Just a few weeks later, Rada delegates signed a separate treaty with the German bloc countries. Germany and Austria-Hungary were at the time in a dire situation and needed Ukrainian bread and raw materials. In order to secure large-scale supplies, they obtained consent for sending their troops and technical staff to the UPR. In fact, this was used as a pretext for occupation. For those who have today given up the full control of Ukraine to external forces, it would be instructive to remember that, back in 1918, such a decision proved fatal for the ruling regime in Kiev. With the direct involvement of the occupying forces, the Central Rada was overthrown and Hetman Pavlo Skoropadskyi was brought to power, proclaiming instead of the UPR the Ukrainian State, which was essentially under German protectorate. In November 1918 – following the revolutionary events in Germany and Austria-Hungary – Pavlo Skoropadskyi, who had lost the support of German bayonets, took a different course, declaring that ”Ukraine is to take the lead in the formation of an All-Russian Federation“. However, the regime was soon changed again. It was now the time of the so-called Directorate. In autumn 1918, Ukrainian nationalists proclaimed the West Ukrainian People's Republic  and, in January 1919, announced its unification with the Ukrainian People's Republic. In July 1919, Ukrainian forces were crushed by Polish troops, and the territory of the former WUPR came under the Polish rule. In April 1920, Symon Petliura  concluded secret conventions on behalf of the UPR Directorate, giving up – in exchange for military support – Galicia and Western Volhynia lands to Poland. In May 1920, Petliurites entered Kiev in a convoy of Polish military units. But not for long. As early as November 1920, following a truce between Poland and Soviet Russia, the remnants of Petliura's forces surrendered to those same Poles. The example of the UPR shows that different kinds of quasi-state formations that emerged across the former Russian Empire at the time of the Civil War and turbulence were inherently unstable. Nationalists sought to create their own independent states, while leaders of the White movement advocated indivisible Russia. Many of the republics established by the Bolsheviks' supporters did not see themselves outside Russia either. Nevertheless, Bolshevik Party leaders sometimes basically drove them out of Soviet Russia for various reasons. Thus, in early 1918, the Donetsk-Krivoy Rog Soviet Republic was proclaimed and asked Moscow to incorporate it into Soviet Russia. This was met with a refusal. During a meeting with the republic's leaders, Vladimir Lenin insisted that they act as part of Soviet Ukraine. On 15 March 1918, the Central Committee of the Russian Communist Party  directly ordered that delegates be sent to the Ukrainian Congress of Soviets, including from the Donetsk Basin, and that ”one government for all of Ukraine“ be created at the congress. The territories of the Donetsk-Krivoy Rog Soviet Republic later formed most of the regions of south-eastern Ukraine. Under the 1921 Treaty of Riga, concluded between the Russian SFSR, the Ukrainian SSR and Poland, the western lands of the former Russian Empire were ceded to Poland. In the interwar period, the Polish government pursued an active resettlement policy, seeking to change the ethnic composition of the Eastern Borderlands – the Polish name for what is now Western Ukraine, Western Belarus and parts of Lithuania. The areas were subjected to harsh Polonisation, local culture and traditions suppressed. Later, during World War II, radical groups of Ukrainian nationalists used this as a pretext for terror not only against Polish, but also against Jewish and Russian populations. In 1922, when the USSR was created, with the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic becoming one of its founders, a rather fierce debate among the Bolshevik leaders resulted in the implementation of Lenin's plan to form a union state as a federation of equal republics. The right for the republics to freely secede from the Union was included in the text of the Declaration on the Creation of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and, subsequently, in the 1924 USSR Constitution. By doing so, the authors planted in the foundation of our statehood the most dangerous time bomb, which exploded the moment the safety mechanism provided by the leading role of the CPSU was gone, the party itself collapsing from within. A ”parade of sovereignties“ followed. On 8 December 1991, the so-called Belovezh Agreement on the Creation of the Commonwealth of Independent States was signed, stating that ”the USSR as a subject of international law and a geopolitical reality no longer existed.“ By the way, Ukraine never signed or ratified the CIS Charter adopted back in 1993. In the 1920's-1930's, the Bolsheviks actively promoted the ”localization policy“, which took the form of Ukrainization in the Ukrainian SSR. Symbolically, as part of this policy and with consent of the Soviet authorities, Mikhail Grushevskiy, former chairman of Central Rada, one of the ideologists of Ukrainian nationalism, who at a certain period of time had been supported by Austria-Hungary, was returned to the USSR and was elected member of the Academy of Sciences. The localization policy undoubtedly played a major role in the development and consolidation of the Ukrainian culture, language and identity. At the same time, under the guise of combating the so-called Russian great-power chauvinism, Ukrainization was often imposed on those who did not see themselves as Ukrainians. This Soviet national policy secured at the state level the provision on three separate Slavic peoples: Russian, Ukrainian and Belorussian, instead of the large Russian nation, a triune people comprising Velikorussians, Malorussians and Belorussians. In 1939, the USSR regained the lands earlier seized by Poland. A major portion of these became part of the Soviet Ukraine. In 1940, the Ukrainian SSR incorporated part of Bessarabia, which had been occupied by Romania since 1918, as well as Northern Bukovina. In 1948, Zmeyiniy Island  in the Black Sea became part of Ukraine. In 1954, the Crimean Region of the RSFSR was given to the Ukrainian SSR, in gross violation of legal norms that were in force at the time. I would like to dwell on the destiny of Carpathian Ruthenia, which became part of Czechoslovakia following the breakup of Austria-Hungary. Rusins made up a considerable share of local population. While this is hardly mentioned any longer, after the liberation of Transcarpathia by Soviet troops the congress of the Orthodox population of the region voted for the inclusion of Carpathian Ruthenia in the RSFSR or, as a separate Carpathian republic, in the USSR proper. Yet the choice of people was ignored. In summer 1945, the historical act of the reunification of Carpathian Ukraine ”with its ancient motherland, Ukraine“ – as The Pravda newspaper put it – was announced. Therefore, modern Ukraine is entirely the product of the Soviet era. We know and remember well that it was shaped – for a significant part – on the lands of historical Russia. To make sure of that, it is enough to look at the boundaries of the lands reunited with the Russian state in the 17th century and the territory of the Ukrainian SSR when it left the Soviet Union. The Bolsheviks treated the Russian people as inexhaustible material for their social experiments. They dreamt of a world revolution that would wipe out national states. That is why they were so generous in drawing borders and bestowing territorial gifts. It is no longer important what exactly the idea of the Bolshevik leaders who were chopping the country into pieces was. We can disagree about minor details, background and logics behind certain decisions. One fact is crystal clear: Russia was robbed, indeed. When working on this article, I relied on open-source documents that contain well-known facts rather than on some secret records. The leaders of modern Ukraine and their external ”patrons“ prefer to overlook these facts. They do not miss a chance, however, both inside the country and abroad, to condemn ”the crimes of the Soviet regime,“ listing among them events with which neither the CPSU, nor the USSR, let alone modern Russia, have anything to do. At the same time, the Bolsheviks' efforts to detach from Russia its historical territories are not considered a crime. And we know why: if they brought about the weakening of Russia, our ill-wishes are happy with that. Of course, inside the USSR, borders between republics were never seen as state borders; they were nominal within a single country, which, while featuring all the attributes of a federation, was highly centralized – this, again, was secured by the CPSU's leading role. But in 1991, all those territories, and, which is more important, people, found themselves abroad overnight, taken away, this time indeed, from their historical motherland. What can be said to this? Things change: countries and communities are no exception. Of course, some part of a people in the process of its development, influenced by a number of reasons and historical circumstances, can become aware of itself as a separate nation at a certain moment. How should we treat that? There is only one answer: with respect! You want to establish a state of your own: you are welcome! But what are the terms? I will recall the assessment given by one of the most prominent political figures of new Russia, first mayor of Saint Petersburg Anatoly Sobchak. As a legal expert who believed that every decision must be legitimate, in 1992, he shared the following opinion: the republics that were founders of the Union, having denounced the 1922 Union Treaty, must return to the boundaries they had had before joining the Soviet Union. All other territorial acquisitions are subject to discussion, negotiations, given that the ground has been revoked. In other words, when you leave, take what you brought with you. This logic is hard to refute. I will just say that the Bolsheviks had embarked on reshaping boundaries even before the Soviet Union, manipulating with territories to their liking, in disregard of people's views. The Russian Federation recognized the new geopolitical realities: and not only recognized, but, indeed, did a lot for Ukraine to establish itself as an independent country. Throughout the difficult 1990's and in the new millennium, we have provided considerable support to Ukraine. Whatever ”political arithmetic“ of its own Kiev may wish to apply, in 1991–2013, Ukraine's budget savings amounted to more than USD 82 billion, while today, it holds on to the mere USD 1.5 billion of Russian payments for gas transit to Europe. If economic ties between our countries had been retained, Ukraine would enjoy the benefit of tens of billions of dollars. Ukraine and Russia have developed as a single economic system over decades and centuries. The profound cooperation we had 30 years ago is an example for the European Union to look up to. We are natural complementary economic partners. Such a close relationship can strengthen competitive advantages, increasing the potential of both countries. Ukraine used to possess great potential, which included powerful infrastructure, gas transportation system, advanced shipbuilding, aviation, rocket and instrument engineering industries, as well as world-class scientific, design and engineering schools. Taking over this legacy and declaring independence, Ukrainian leaders promised that the Ukrainian economy would be one of the leading ones and the standard of living would be among the best in Europe. Today, high-tech industrial giants that were once the pride of Ukraine and the entire Union, are sinking. Engineering output has dropped by 42 per cent over ten years. The scale of deindustrialization and overall economic degradation is visible in Ukraine's electricity production, which has seen a nearly two-time decrease in 30 years. Finally, according to IMF reports, in 2019, before the coronavirus pandemic broke out, Ukraine's GDP per capita had been below USD 4 thousand. This is less than in the Republic of Albania, the Republic of Moldova, or unrecognized Kosovo. Nowadays, Ukraine is Europe's poorest country. Who is to blame for this? Is it the people of Ukraine's fault? Certainly not. It was the Ukrainian authorities who waisted and frittered away the achievements of many generations. We know how hardworking and talented the people of Ukraine are. They can achieve success and outstanding results with perseverance and determination. And these qualities, as well as their openness, innate optimism and hospitality have not gone. The feelings of millions of people who treat Russia not just well but with great affection, just as we feel about Ukraine, remain the same. Until 2014, hundreds of agreements and joint projects were aimed at developing our economies, business and cultural ties, strengthening security, and solving common social and environmental problems. They brought tangible benefits to people – both in Russia and Ukraine. This is what we believed to be most important. And that is why we had a fruitful interaction with all, I emphasize, with all the leaders of Ukraine. Even after the events in Kiev of 2014, I charged the Russian government to elaborate options for preserving and maintaining our economic ties within relevant ministries and agencies. However, there was and is still no mutual will to do the same. Nevertheless, Russia is still one of Ukraine's top three trading partners, and hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians are coming to us to work, and they find a welcome reception and support. So that what the ”aggressor state“ is. When the USSR collapsed, many people in Russia and Ukraine sincerely believed and assumed that our close cultural, spiritual and economic ties would certainly last, as would the commonality of our people, who had always had a sense of unity at their core. However, events – at first gradually, and then more rapidly – started to move in a different direction. In essence, Ukraine's ruling circles decided to justify their country's independence through the denial of its past, however, except for border issues. They began to mythologize and rewrite history, edit out everything that united us, and refer to the period when Ukraine was part of the Russian Empire and the Soviet Union as an occupation. The common tragedy of collectivization and famine of the early 1930s was portrayed as the genocide of the Ukrainian people. Radicals and neo-Nazis were open and more and more insolent about their ambitions. They were indulged by both the official authorities and local oligarchs, who robbed the people of Ukraine and kept their stolen money in Western banks, ready to sell their motherland for the sake of preserving their capital. To this should be added the persistent weakness of state institutions and the position of a willing hostage to someone else's geopolitical will. I recall that long ago, well before 2014, the U.S. and EU countries systematically and consistently pushed Ukraine to curtail and limit economic cooperation with Russia. We, as the largest trade and economic partner of Ukraine, suggested discussing the emerging problems in the Ukraine-Russia-EU format. But every time we were told that Russia had nothing to do with it and that the issue concerned only the EU and Ukraine. De facto Western countries rejected Russia's repeated calls for dialogue. Step by step, Ukraine was dragged into a dangerous geopolitical game aimed at turning Ukraine into a barrier between Europe and Russia, a springboard against Russia. Inevitably, there came a time when the concept of ”Ukraine is not Russia“ was no longer an option. There was a need for the ”anti-Russia“ concept which we will never accept. The owners of this project took as a basis the old groundwork of the Polish-Austrian ideologists to create an ”anti-Moscow Russia“. And there is no need to deceive anyone that this is being done in the interests of the people of Ukraine. The Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth never needed Ukrainian culture, much less Cossack autonomy. In Austria-Hungary, historical Russian lands were mercilessly exploited and remained the poorest. The Nazis, abetted by collaborators from the OUN-UPA, did not need Ukraine, but a living space and slaves for Aryan overlords. Nor were the interests of the Ukrainian people thought of in February 2014. The legitimate public discontent, caused by acute socio-economic problems, mistakes, and inconsistent actions of the authorities of the time, was simply cynically exploited. Western countries directly interfered in Ukraine's internal affairs and supported the coup. Radical nationalist groups served as its battering ram. Their slogans, ideology, and blatant aggressive Russophobia have to a large extent become defining elements of state policy in Ukraine. All the things that united us and bring us together so far came under attack. First and foremost, the Russian language. Let me remind you that the new ”Maidan“ authorities first tried to repeal the law on state language policy. Then there was the law on the ”purification of power“, the law on education that virtually cut the Russian language out of the educational process. Lastly, as early as May of this year, the current president introduced a bill on ”indigenous peoples“ to the Rada. Only those who constitute an ethnic minority and do not have their own state entity outside Ukraine are recognized as indigenous. The law has been passed. New seeds of discord have been sown. And this is happening in a country, as I have already noted, that is very complex in terms of its territorial, national and linguistic composition, and its history of formation. There may be an argument: if you are talking about a single large nation, a triune nation, then what difference does it make who people consider themselves to be – Russians, Ukrainians, or Belarusians. I completely agree with this. Especially since the determination of nationality, particularly in mixed families, is the right of every individual, free to make his or her own choice. But the fact is that the situation in Ukraine today is completely different because it involves a forced change of identity. And the most despicable thing is that the Russians in Ukraine are being forced not only to deny their roots, generations of their ancestors but also to believe that Russia is their enemy. It would not be an exaggeration to say that the path of forced assimilation, the formation of an ethnically pure Ukrainian state, aggressive towards Russia, is comparable in its consequences to the use of weapons of mass destruction against us. As a result of such a harsh and artificial division of Russians and Ukrainians, the Russian people in all may decrease by hundreds of thousands or even millions. Our spiritual unity has also been attacked. As in the days of the Grand Duchy of Lithuania, a new ecclesiastical has been initiated. The secular authorities, making no secret of their political aims, have blatantly interfered in church life and brought things to a split, to the seizure of churches, the beating of priests and monks. Even extensive autonomy of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church while maintaining spiritual unity with the Moscow Patriarchate strongly displeases them. They have to destroy this prominent and centuries-old symbol of our kinship at all costs. I think it is also natural that the representatives of Ukraine over and over again vote against the UN General Assembly resolution condemning the glorification of Nazism. Marches and torchlit processions in honor of remaining war criminals from the SS units take place under the protection of the official authorities. Mazepa, who betrayed everyone, Petliura, who paid for Polish patronage with Ukrainian lands, and Bandera, who collaborated with the Nazis, are ranked as national heroes. Everything is being done to erase from the memory of young generations the names of genuine patriots and victors, who have always been the pride of Ukraine. For the Ukrainians who fought in the Red Army, in partisan units, the Great Patriotic War was indeed a patriotic war because they were defending their home, their great common Motherland. Over two thousand soldiers became Heroes of the Soviet Union. Among them are legendary pilot Ivan Kozhedub, fearless sniper, defender of Odessa and Sevastopol Lyudmila Pavlichenko, valiant guerrilla commander Sidor Kovpak. This indomitable generation fought, those people gave their lives for our future, for us. To forget their feat is to betray our grandfathers, mothers and fathers. The anti-Russia project has been rejected by millions of Ukrainians. The people of Crimea and residents of Sevastopol made their historic choice. And people in the southeast peacefully tried to defend their stance. Yet, all of them, including children, were labeled as separatists and terrorists. They were threatened with ethnic cleansing and the use of military force. And the residents of Donetsk and Lugansk took up arms to defend their home, their language and their lives. Were they left any other choice after the riots that swept through the cities of Ukraine, after the horror and tragedy of 2 May 2014 in Odessa where Ukrainian neo-Nazis burned people alive making a new Khatyn out of it? The same massacre was ready to be carried out by the followers of Bandera in Crimea, Sevastopol, Donetsk and Lugansk. Even now they do not abandon such plans. They are biding their time. But their time will not come. The coup d'état and the subsequent actions of the Kiev authorities inevitably provoked confrontation and civil war. The UN High Commissioner for Human Rights estimates that the total number of victims in the conflict in Donbas has exceeded 13,000. Among them are the elderly and children. These are terrible, irreparable losses. Russia has done everything to stop fratricide. The Minsk agreements aimed at a peaceful settlement of the conflict in Donbas have been concluded. I am convinced that they still have no alternative. In any case, no one has withdrawn their signatures from the Minsk Package of Measures or from the relevant statements by the leaders of the Normandy format countries. No one has initiated a review of the United Nations Security Council resolution of 17 February 2015. During official negotiations, especially after being reined in by Western partners, Ukraine's representatives regularly declare their ”full adherence“ to the Minsk agreements, but are in fact guided by a position of ”unacceptability“. They do not intend to seriously discuss either the special status of Donbas or safeguards for the people living there. They prefer to exploit the image of the ”victim of external aggression“ and peddle Russophobia. They arrange bloody provocations in Donbas. In short, they attract the attention of external patrons and masters by all means. Apparently, and I am becoming more and more convinced of this: Kiev simply does not need Donbas. Why? Because, firstly, the inhabitants of these regions will never accept the order that they have tried and are trying to impose by force, blockade and threats. And secondly, the outcome of both Minsk‑1 and Minsk‑2 which give a real chance to peacefully restore the territorial integrity of Ukraine by coming to an agreement directly with the DPR and LPR with Russia, Germany and France as mediators, contradicts the entire logic of the anti-Russia project. And it can only be sustained by the constant cultivation of the image of an internal and external enemy. And I would add – under the protection and control of the Western powers. This is what is actually happening. First of all, we are facing the creation of a climate of fear in Ukrainian society, aggressive rhetoric, indulging neo-Nazis and militarising the country. Along with that we are witnessing not just complete dependence but direct external control, including the supervision of the Ukrainian authorities, security services and armed forces by foreign advisers, military ”development“ of the territory of Ukraine and deployment of NATO infrastructure. It is no coincidence that the aforementioned flagrant law on ”indigenous peoples“ was adopted under the cover of large-scale NATO exercises in Ukraine. This is also a disguise for the takeover of the rest of the Ukrainian economy and the exploitation of its natural resources. The sale of agricultural land is not far off, and it is obvious who will buy it up. From time to time, Ukraine is indeed given financial resources and loans, but under their own conditions and pursuing their own interests, with preferences and benefits for Western companies. By the way, who will pay these debts back? Apparently, it is assumed that this will have to be done not only by today's generation of Ukrainians but also by their children, grandchildren and probably great-grandchildren. The Western authors of the anti-Russia project set up the Ukrainian political system in such a way that presidents, members of parliament and ministers would change but the attitude of separation from and enmity with Russia would remain. Reaching peace was the main election slogan of the incumbent president. He came to power with this. The promises turned out to be lies. Nothing has changed. And in some ways the situation in Ukraine and around Donbas has even degenerated. In the anti-Russia project, there is no place either for a sovereign Ukraine or for the political forces that are trying to defend its real independence. Those who talk about reconciliation in Ukrainian society, about dialogue, about finding a way out of the current impasse are labelled as ”pro-Russian“ agents. Again, for many people in Ukraine, the anti-Russia project is simply unacceptable. And there are millions of such people. But they are not allowed to raise their heads. They have had their legal opportunity to defend their point of view in fact taken away from them. They are intimidated, driven underground. Not only are they persecuted for their convictions, for the spoken word, for the open expression of their position, but they are also killed. Murderers, as a rule, go unpunished. Today, the ”right“ patriot of Ukraine is only the one who hates Russia. Moreover, the entire Ukrainian statehood, as we understand it, is proposed to be further built exclusively on this idea. Hate and anger, as world history has repeatedly proved this, are a very shaky foundation for sovereignty, fraught with many serious risks and dire consequences. All the subterfuges associated with the anti-Russia project are clear to us. And we will never allow our historical territories and people close to us living there to be used against Russia. And to those who will undertake such an attempt, I would like to say that this way they will destroy their own country. The incumbent authorities in Ukraine like to refer to Western experience, seeing it as a model to follow. Just have a look at how Austria and Germany, the USA and Canada live next to each other. Close in ethnic composition, culture, in fact sharing one language, they remain sovereign states with their own interests, with their own foreign policy. But this does not prevent them from the closest integration or allied relations. They have very conditional, transparent borders. And when crossing them the citizens feel at home. They create families, study, work, do business. Incidentally, so do millions of those born in Ukraine who now live in Russia. We see them as our own close people. Russia is open to dialogue with Ukraine and ready to discuss the most complex issues. But it is important for us to understand that our partner is defending its national interests but not serving someone else's, and is not a tool in someone else's hands to fight against us. We respect the Ukrainian language and traditions. We respect Ukrainians' desire to see their country free, safe and prosperous. I am confident that true sovereignty of Ukraine is possible only in partnership with Russia. Our spiritual, human and civilizational ties formed for centuries and have their origins in the same sources, they have been hardened by common trials, achievements and victories. Our kinship has been transmitted from generation to generation. It is in the hearts and the memory of people living in modern Russia and Ukraine, in the blood ties that unite millions of our families. Together we have always been and will be many times stronger and more successful. For we are one people. Today, these words may be perceived by some people with hostility. They can be interpreted in many possible ways. Yet, many people will hear me. And I will say one thing – Russia has never been and will never be ”anti-Ukraine“. And what Ukraine will be – it is up to its citizens to decide. Geography Ukraine Topics Foreign policy Publication status Published in sections: News , Transcripts Publication date: July 12, 2021, 17:00 Direct link: en.kremlin.ru/d/66181 Text version
Ladies and gentlemen, I am delighted to welcome you at the Conference of Heads of Prosecutor’s Offices of European States in St Petersburg. Despite the difference in your powers and the specifics of the national legislations, your offices are playing a major role in ensuring the priority of law in your countries, protecting civil rights and freedoms and the interests of the state and society. These basic goals and tasks not only unite you, but also highlight the importance of cooperation and meaningful professional partnership. During the next few days, you will be discussing a broad range of topics related to the role of prosecutor’s offices in the protection of civil rights in accordance with the principles of the European Convention on Human Rights. I regard this as a matter of utmost significance. People and their rights and freedoms are the greatest value, and it is the duty of the state to create effective mechanisms for their unhindered implementation. This fully concerns the social rights of citizens, including the right to affordable, high-quality medical services. This is especially important now in light of the coronavirus pandemic that spread throughout the world last year. Other items on your agenda deserve serious attention as well. They include compliance with norms and requirements of environmental security, the fight against cybercrime and efforts against illegal migration. These are common challenges for all European countries, and the effectiveness of our response to them will largely determine social stability, law and order, and the sustainable development of our states and the European continent as a whole. The Russian Prosecutor’s Office is working energetically in all these spheres. Acting as an integral centralised system, it is fulfilling all its tasks accurately and is contributing to the development of Russia as a truly law-based, socially oriented and democratic state. I would like to emphasise that these principles have been recently intensified and specified in the renewed Constitution of Russia and in the Russian legislation as a whole. Acting within the framework of their supervisory authority, prosecutors are monitoring compliance with the law throughout Russia and taking measures to protect people’s rights in case of any violations. For example, during the pandemic, the prosecutor’s offices redoubled their efforts to monitor the timely provision of medical care, medicine and social payments and also benefits. While doing this, they pay special attention to the protection of the rights of children, senior citizens, people with disabilities, large families and low-income families. I would like to point out specifically that we have recently adopted a federal law that granted new powers to the Prosecutor General’s Office of Russia. It has to do with representing and protecting the interests of Russia in interstate agencies, foreign and international courts, and foreign and international courts of arbitration, including the European Court of Human Rights. I mentioned this before, but I
Mr Lukashenko, friends, colleagues, I am delighted to welcome all the participants of the regular, 8 th Forum of Russian and Belarusian Regions. Due to objective and understandable reasons and circumstances connected with the epidemiological situation, we are holding the forum via videoconference, just like last year. However, it is notable that such meetings between representatives of regional and local governments, business communities and workers of education, science and culture of our two countries are held regularly. This is important. It is an opportunity to discuss the current topics of Russian-Belarusian interaction in politics, the economy and the humanitarian sphere and also to coordinate joint projects between the constituent entities of the Russian Federation and the regions of the Republic of Belarus. See also Telephone conversation with President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko July 1, 2021 The forum’s co-chair, Federation Council Speaker Valentina Matviyenko has already reported on your achievements during the past two days, the discussions you held and decisions you adopted, as well as your cooperation plans. I believe that all of this is very important for the further development of interregional ties, which are a key component of the entire Russian-Belarusian strategic partnership. I would like to emphasise once again that Belarus is not just a good neighbour but first of all our closest ally. Our relations are based on the principles of mutual respect, support and a balance of each other’s interests. Close friendly ties between the people of Russia and Belarus rest on a common history and common spiritual values, and often on family ties as well. Quite recently, we paid tribute to the defenders of the Fatherland and their unforgettable courage on the occasion of the 80 th anniversary of the beginning of the Great Patriotic War. I am well aware that large-scale commemorative events were held this year in Brest Fortress, which was one of the first to stand up against the aggressor. I have no doubt that such issues as preserving the memory of the crucial events in our common past, preventing any attempts to falsify history, patriotic education of the younger generation must always remain in the focus of our attention. Being the descendants of the generation of victors is not just a great honour, but also a huge responsibility for preserving the traditions of our combat brotherhood and mutual assistance, which were forged during the harsh wartime years. This is why we will continue providing all-round assistance to the fraternal Belarusian people in these far from easy domestic political circumstances in Belarus, amid the continued political and sanctions pressure and the stubborn attempts of external forces to stir up the situation. We are supporting and will continue supporting our Belarusian friends in their resistance to the sanctions restrictions, which the European Union has recently imposed. We believe that the ban on the delivery of some Belarusian products to EU countries is damaging the interests of businesses and ordinary people – this is what those who adopt these decisions should have thought about – the interest of ordinary people, including in European countries themselves. However, Russia is resolved to continue working consistently to develop its multifaceted ties with the Republic of Belarus and to build our common Union State. On a larger scale, we are building up integration processes in Eurasia and we will be doing this, in particular, within the framework of the Eurasian Economic Union and the Collective Security Treaty Organisation. I would just like to remind you that on April 2, 2021, we marked 25 years since the signing of the Treaty Establishing the Commonwealth of Russia and Belarus, the forerunner of the Treaty Establishing the Union State of Russia and Belarus. Over a period of the past 25 years, we have accomplished and achieved a great deal together. We now take many of our achievements for granted, for example, the fact that the citizens of our two countries have equal rights in healthcare, social protection, retirement benefits, education, and the freedom of movement, residence and employment. The economies of Russia and Belarus are closely interconnected. Russia is the largest foreign investor in the Republic of Belarus and accounts for 30 percent of foreign investment. Some 2,400 Russian companies are working in Belarus. Russia accounts for nearly 50 percent of the foreign trade of Belarus. We are working energetically now to coordinate a programme of the unification of our countries’ legislations in a variety of areas, including tax and customs. Its implementation will enable us to balance the conditions for doing business, complete the establishment of common financial and energy markets and a common transportation environment, as well as to formulate common industrial, agricultural and digital policies. The continued development of mutually beneficial Russian-Belarusian ties will be certainly promoted by a large package of interregional documents and commercial contracts signed during this forum. Colleagues, This forum is focused on scientific and technological cooperation between Russia and Belarus in the era of digitalisation. This theme is fully in keeping with modern challenges and the high rate of technological change in all spheres of life. Our countries have been cooperating in the field of science and technology for a long time now and quite successfully, joining forces to address the strategic task of creating a common scientific, technological and digital environment in the Union State. It is also important for our regions to join in the implementation of our digital agenda. I would like to point out that we have already implemented a number of joint innovative programmes and projects in data processing, geological exploration and energy, plus genome and medical research. I would like to take advantage of this occasion to say that the manufacturing of Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine against the coronavirus began in Belarus this year. A Science and Technology Prize has been established in the Union State; it is awarded every other year to Russian and Belarusian scientists and research teams. The Belarusian-Russian University, which was created in Mogilev, has been granted the status of a state university in both countries. It is a major regional research and educational centre comprising departments in a broad range of disciplines, a vocational school, and architecture and construction college, and an advanced training and retraining institute. Russia and Belarus are working together to improve the academic mobility conditions for students and lecturers of their universities. In addition to this, Belarusian citizens can enrol for all kinds of tuition in Russian universities, including state-financed openings based on competitive examinations. Furthermore, the results of the Belarusian system of Central Testing and the results of School Olympiads of the Union State will be recognised in Russia already this year. It is notable that the scientific and technological cooperation of Russia and Belarus has an applied aspect, and our joint achievements are being used to modernise our industries and knowledge-intensive sectors in both countries. We are paying considerable attention to the digitalisation of the economy and the introduction of technological and financial innovations. The governments of Russia and Belarus are currently analysing the possibility of using uniform digital solutions, which should greatly simplify taxation, customs clearance and the monitoring of cargo transit. Taken together, this will boost the development of private enterprise in our countries on an equal, non-discrimination basis. The largest Russian-Belarusian high-tech project is, without a doubt, the construction by Rosatom of a nuclear power plant in Belarus. The scientific ties established during this project and the experience we have accumulated offer cooperation opportunities for the peaceful use of nuclear energy in many other spheres, namely the construction of low-capacity nuclear power plants and also nuclear medicine. An important agreement was signed this year between the National Research Centre Kurchatov Institute and the National Academy of Sciences of Belarus. It provides for creating an infrastructure for joint fundamental and applied research under the auspices of the Union State. We are also actively developing cooperation in the field of space exploration. The research communities of Russia and Belarus are discussing several scenarios for practical interaction in several promising areas, including the creation of a plasma propulsion engine for spacecraft. Of course, we should also join forces in the strategic sphere of climate change, including the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and the creation of an industry that will utilise them. I talked about this during Direct Line yesterday. People in Russia and, I am quite sure, also in Belarus are worried about these matters, they are interested in them for a reason, because they concern everyone. The use of nature-like technologies, which will reduce the burden on the environment and ensure a new quality of life for people, is extremely important in this context. Friends, Our forum is being held ahead of Independence Day in the Republic of Belarus, which is celebrated on July 3, the day when Minsk was liberated from Nazi invaders in 1944. I would like to use this occasion to wholeheartedly congratulate all our Belarusian colleagues, our friends and the brotherly people of Belarus as a whole on their main national holiday. In conclusion, I would like to thank the forum organisers and participants for the contribution they have made and to wish you all every success. Thank you for your attention.
Ladies and gentlemen, foreign guests, Welcome to the 9 th Moscow Conference on International Security. Your representative forum is dedicated to the critical issues of the modern military-political agenda. Strengthening security on the planet and the sustainable development of our civilisation depend on their resolution and on the productive search for effective joint responses to common challenges. However, unfortunately, geopolitical processes are becoming increasingly turbulent despite isolated positive signals. The erosion of international law continues as well. The attempts to use force to push through one’s own interests and to strengthen one’s own security at the expense of the security of others continue unabated. Regional armed conflicts, the risks of proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, the activity of cross-border criminal groups, drug trafficking and cybercriminals are causing us serious concern. International terrorism continues to pose a particular threat. To reiterate, the scale and the global nature of the above challenges require that all states join their efforts. Of course, this collective work must be based on international law and the UN Charter goals and principles. Since its inception, the UN has been and remains the foundation of the international relations system. The main objective of this authoritative and internationally recognised organisation is to prevent a global conflict, a new world war. Any new rules should be formulated under the auspices of the UN. All other avenues will lead to chaos and unpredictability. Yesterday, we marked the mournful date – 80 years since Nazi Germany invaded our country. For us, the lessons of the Great Patriotic War have a special price, and we will do our best to guarantee peace and security for the people of Russia, improve our Armed Forces and, of course, use the opportunities offered by diplomacy and conduct a meaningful dialogue with all stakeholders. We never dictate our will to other countries, and are willing to participate in addressing global and regional challenges and to expand creative cooperation with all countries on equal terms using political and diplomatic methods. We are developing our defence potential based on the principle of reasonable sufficiency and we are not seeking a determining, unilateral military advantage or a balance-of-forces edge in our favour, all the more so in such a sensitive sphere as strategic stability. But we will never allow anyone to pull the balance over to themselves. Our efforts are aimed at reducing the risks, ensuring predictability, and solving differences via dialogue and concrete agreements, including in the field of arms control. I would like to remind you in this connection that earlier Russia suggested developing a new “security equation.” It should take into account all the factors influencing strategic stability in their interconnection. We are confident that political will and readiness to compromise can produce a positive effect. Clear evidence of this is Russia and the United States extending the Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty until 2026. Naturally, we cannot but be concerned over the continuous build-up of NATO’ military potentials and infrastructure in the vicinity of Russian borders, as well as over the fact that the Alliance is refusing to consider in a constructive manner our proposals on de-escalating the tension and reducing the risk of unpredictable incidents. We really do hope that common sense together with the desire to promote constructive relations with Russia will eventually prevail. Settlement of regional conflict is an important aspect of efforts to ensure global security. Russia is active in assisting this. Our military aid helped to liberate the greater part of Syrian territory from international terrorists and to prevent the disintegration of the Syrian state. The political and diplomatic work within the Astana format that is pursued jointly with Turkey and Iran has made it possible to start the process of Syrian settlement under the UN aegis. Russia’s decisive contribution helped to stop the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict. The Russian peacekeepers reliably guarantee peace and security in the region. They are doing a lot to improve the humanitarian situation, clear territories of landmines and rebuild the social infrastructure. Russia never forgets its responsibility for the security and prosperity of neighbouring countries, with which we are brought together by inextricable historical, cultural and human ties. We intend to continue promoting the de-escalation of regional conflicts and strengthening peace and stability on our common continent. In conclusion, I would like to wish you every success with your work and all the best. I am confident that the participants at this conference are going to have some interesting discussions and that the resulting proposals and initiatives will serve to strengthen international security and stability. Thank you for your attention.
Events Article by Vladimir Putin ”Being Open, Despite the Past“ An article by the President of Russia has been published in the German weekly newspaper Die Zeit and is timed to coincide with the 80 th anniversary of the beginning of the Great Patriotic war. June 22, 2021 10:30 Being Open, Despite the Past On June 22, 1941, exactly 80 years ago, the Nazis, having conquered practically the whole of Europe, attacked the USSR. For the Soviet people the Great Patriotic War – the bloodiest one in the history of our country – began. Tens of millions of people lost their lives, the economic potential of the country and its cultural property were severely damaged. We are proud of the courage and steadfastness of the heroes of the Red Army and home front workers who not only defended the independence and dignity of our homeland, but also saved Europe and the world from enslavement. Despite attempts to rewrite the pages of the past that are being made today, the truth is that Soviet soldiers came to Germany not to take revenge on the Germans, but with a noble and great mission of liberation. We hold sacred the memory of the heroes who fought against Nazism. We remember with gratitude our allies in the anti-Hitler coalition, participants in the Resistance movement, and German anti-fascists who brought our common victory closer. Having lived through the horrors of the world war, the peoples of Europe were nevertheless able to overcome alienation and restore mutual trust and respect. They set a course for integration in order to draw a final line under the European tragedies of the first half of the last century. And I would like to emphasize that the historical reconciliation of our people with the Germans living both in the east and the west of modern united Germany played a huge role in the formation of such Europe. I would also like to remind that it was German entrepreneurs who became ”pioneers“ of cooperation with our country in the post-war years. In 1970, the USSR and the Federal Republic of Germany concluded a ”deal of the century“ on long-term natural gas supplies to Europe that laid the foundation for constructive interdependence and initiated many future grand projects, including the construction of the Nord Stream gas pipeline. We hoped that the end of the Cold War would be a common victory for Europe. It seemed that just a little more effort was needed to make Charles de Gaulle's dream of a single continent – not even geographically ”from the Atlantic to the Urals“, but culturally and civilizationally ”from Lisbon to Vladivostok“ – become a reality. It is exactly with this logic in mind – the logic of building a Greater Europe united by common values and interests – that Russia has sought to develop its relations with the Europeans. Both Russia and the EU have done a lot on this path. But a different approach has prevailed. It was based on the expansion of the North Atlantic Alliance which was itself a relic of the Cold War. After all, it was specifically created for the confrontation of that era. It was the bloc's movement eastwards – which, by the way, began when the Soviet leadership was actually persuaded to accept the united Germany's accession to NATO – that turned into the main reason for the rapid increase in mutual mistrust in Europe. Verbal promises made in that time such as ”this is not directed against you“ or ”the bloc's borders will not get closer to you“ were quickly forgotten. But a precedent was set. And since 1999, five more “waves” of NATO expansion have followed. Fourteen new countries, including the former Soviet Union republics, joined the organization, effectively dashing hopes for a continent without dividing lines. Interestingly, this was warned about in the mid-1980s by Egon Bahr, one of the SPD leaders, who proposed a radical restructuring of the entire European security system after German unification, involving both the USSR and the United States. But no one in the USSR, the USA or Europe was willing to listen to him at the time. Moreover, many countries were put before the artificial choice of being either with the collective West or with Russia. In fact, it was an ultimatum. The Ukrainian tragedy of 2014 is an example of the consequences that this aggressive policy has led to. Europe actively supported the unconstitutional armed coup in Ukraine. This was where it all started. Why was it necessary to do this? Then incumbent president Yanukovych had already accepted all the demands of the opposition. Why did the USA organize the coup and the European countries weak-heartedly support it, provoking a split within Ukraine and the withdrawal of Crimea? The whole system of European security has now degraded significantly. Tensions are rising and the risks of a new arms race are becoming real. We are missing out on the tremendous opportunities that cooperation offers – all the more important now that we are all facing common challenges, such as the pandemic and its dire social and economic consequences. Why does this happen? And most importantly, what conclusions should we draw together? What lessons of history should we recall? I think, first and foremost, that the entire post-war history of Greater Europe confirms that prosperity and security of our common continent is only possible through the joint efforts of all countries, including Russia. Because Russia is one of the largest countries in Europe. And we are aware of our inseparable cultural and historical connection to Europe. We are open to honest and constructive interaction. This is confirmed by our idea of creating a common space of cooperation and security from the Atlantic to the Pacific Ocean which would comprise various integration formats, including the European Union and the Eurasian Economic Union. I reiterate that Russia is in favour of restoring a comprehensive partnership with Europe. We have many topics of mutual interest. These include security and strategic stability, healthcare and education, digitalization, energy, culture, science and technology, resolution of climate and environmental issues. The world is a dynamic place, facing new challenges and threats. We simply cannot afford to carry the burden of past misunderstandings, hard feelings, conflicts, and mistakes. It is a burden that will prevent us from concentrating on the challenges at hand. We are convinced that we all should recognize these mistakes and correct them. Our common and indisputable goal is to ensure security on the continent without dividing lines, a common space for equitable cooperation and inclusive development for the prosperity of Europe and the world as a whole. Topics Foreign policy Great Patriotic War Publication status Published in sections: News , Transcripts Publication date: June 22, 2021, 10:30 Direct link: en.kremlin.ru/d/65899 Text version
Would you mind repeating the question again, that we are preparing to hack what kind of facilities? No. We don't have that kind of programmes with Iran. No, it's just nonsense all over again, yet again. We have cooperation plans with Iran, including military and technical cooperation. And all of this fits the framework of the decisions that were agreed upon in our programme, in regard to Iran’s nuclear programme in the context of UN decisions together with our partners in the preparation of the JCPOA whereby some point sanctions, including in the area of military and technical cooperation, should be lifted from Iran. We have certain programmes which concern conventional weapons, if it gets that far. However, we haven't even gone to that stage yet. We don't even have any kind of real cooperation in the conventional weapons area. So if anybody is inventing something regarding modern space-based technology, this is just plain fiction. This is just fake news. At the very least, I don't know anything about this kind of thing. Those who are speaking about it probably know more about it. It's just nonsense, garbage. Look, why are we talking about problems that don’t exist? There is no subject for discussion. Somebody has invented something, has made something up. Maybe this is just a bogus story so as to limit any kind of military and technical cooperation with Iran. I will say once again this is just some fake information that I have no knowledge about. For the first time I'm hearing about this information from you. We don't have this kind of intentions. And I'm not even sure that Iran is even able to accommodate this kind of technology. This is a separate subject, a very high-tech subject. We don't rule out cooperation with many world nations in space. But probably everybody knows very well our position in terms that we are categorically against space militarisation all together. We believe that space should be free from any and all kinds of weapons located in near-Earth orbits. We don't have this kind of plans or any plans, especially concerning the transfer of technology of the level that you have just described. Well, I don't know. Somebody presents it from a certain perspective. Somebody looks at the development of this situation and at yours truly in a different manner. All of this is being offered to the public in a way that is found to be expedient for the ruling circles of a certain country. The fact that President Biden has been meeting up with his allies, there is nothing unusual about it. There's nothing unusual about a G7 meeting. We know what G7 is. I have been there on numerous occasions. I know what the values are in that forum. When people get together and discuss something, it's always good. It's better than not to get together and not to discuss. Because even in the context of the G7 there are matters that require ongoing attention and consideration because there are differences, strange as it may seem. There may be differences in assessments of international events on the international arena and among them. And very well then, let’s get together and discuss it. As far as NATO, I have said on many occasions, ”This is a Cold War relic.“ It's something that was born in the Cold War era. I'm not sure why it still continues to exist. There was a time and there was some talk that this organisation would be transformed. Now it has been kind of forgotten. We presume that it is a military organisation. It is an ally of the United States. Every once in a while, it makes sense to meet up with your allies, although I can have an idea of how the discussion goes on there. Clearly everything is decided by consensus. However, there is just one opinion that is correct. Whereas the other opinions are not quite that right, putting it in careful terms. Well, there we go. Allies are getting together. What's so unusual about it? I don't see anything unusual about it. As a matter of fact it's a sign of respect to the US allies before a summit between the US and Russian presidents. Probably it is being presented as desire to find out their opinion on the key issues of the current agenda, including those issues that President Biden and I will discuss. However, I'm inclined to think that despite all of these niceties, the United States, as far as their relationship with Russia, will be promoting what they consider important and necessary for themselves, above all for themselves, in their economic and military interests. However, to hear what their allies have to say about – it probably never hurts. This is working procedure. No. We have a bilateral relationship that has deteriorated to what is the lowest point in recent years. However, there are matters that need a certain amount of comparing notes and identification and determination of mutual positions, so that matters that are of mutual interest can be dealt with in an efficient and effective way in the interests of both the United States and Russia. So, there is nothing unusual about it. In fact, despite this seemingly harsh rhetoric, we expected those suggestions because the US domestic political agenda made it impossible for us to restore the relationship at an acceptable level. This meeting should have taken place at some point. So, President Biden launched this initiative. Prior to that, as you know, he had supported the extension of the START treaty, which of course was bound to meet with support from our side. We believe that this treaty in the area of containment of strategic offensive weapons has been worked through and thoroughly, and meets our interests, and meets the US interests. So this offer could be expected. We know what matters and what problems Americans want to discuss with us, we understand these questions, matters and problems. We're prepared for this joint work. We have certain if not differences than different understandings of what pace – at what pace and in what directions we need to be moving. We know what constitutes priorities for the US side. And this is, generally speaking, a process that needs to be advanced at the professional level along the lines of the Foreign Ministry and Defence Ministry on the Russian side, the Pentagon and State Department of the US side. We are prepared for this work. We've heard signals that the US side would like to see these negotiations resumed at the expert level of professionals. We will see if the conditions for this have been created following the summit. Of course, we are not saying no. We are ready to do this work. Well, this is the most important thing. This is the most important value, if you will, in international affairs. Well, he says one thing. I say another thing. But maybe at some point in certain ways our rhetoric varies and is different. But if you ask my opinion now, I am telling you what it is. The most important value in international affairs is predictability and stability. And I believe that on the part of our US partners, this is something that we haven't seen in recent years. What kind of stability and predictability could there be if we remember the 2011 events in Libya where the country was essentially taken apart, broken down? What kind of stability and predictability was there? There has been talk of a continued presence of troops in Afghanistan. And then all of a sudden, boom!, the troops are being withdrawn from Afghanistan. Is this predictability and stability again? Now the Middle East events. Is this predictability and stability, what all of this will lead to? Or in Syria? What is stable and predictable about this? I've asked my US counterparts, ”You want Assad to leave? Who will replace him? What will happen when he's replaced with somebody?“ The answer is odd. The answer is, ”I don't know.“ Well, if you don't know what will happen next, why change what there is? It could be a second Libya or another Afghanistan. Do we want this? No. Let us sit down together, talk, look for compromise solutions that are acceptable for all the parties. That is how stability is achieved. It cannot be achieved by imposing one particular point of view, the ”correct“ point of view, whereby all the other ones are incorrect. That's not how stability is achieved. Well, even now, I believe that former US President Mr Trump is an extraordinary individual, a talented individual, otherwise he would not have become US President. He is a colourful individual. You may like him or not. And he didn't come from the US establishment. He had not been part of big time politics before, and some like it, some don’t like it but that is a fact. President Biden, of course, is radically different from Mr Trump because President Biden is a career man. He has spent virtually his entire adulthood in politics. He has been doing it for a great deal of years and I have already said that and that is an obvious fact. Just think of the number of years he spent in the Senate, and how many years he was involved in the matters of international politics and disarmament, virtually at the expert level. That's a different kind of person, and it is my great hope that yes, there are some advantages, some disadvantages, but there will not be any knee-jerk reactions on behalf of the sitting US President, that we will be able to comply with certain rules of engagement, certain rules of communications and will be able to find points of contact and common points. As far as soul, I'm not sure. One has to think about what soul is. But I do not remember this particular part of our conversations, to be honest with you. I do not remember. We all, when we meet, when we get together, when we talk, when we work and strive and achieve some solutions, we all proceed from the interests of our nations and our states. And this is fundamental and is the bedrock of all our actions and intentions. And this is the driving force and the motive for organising meetings of this kind. And as far as soul goes, that's something for the church. I do not remember this. ”Something is wrong with my memory.“ Well, he probably has good memory. I do not rule this out, but I don't remember this. In personal encounters, people try to act appropriately. I do not remember any inappropriate elements of behavior on the part of my counterparts. I don't think that anything like that has happened. Perhaps he did say something, but I do not remember. Well, that depends on the context. It depends on what form they're said in. One can say this in different ways. It can be presented in different ways. But generally, people meet up in order to establish a relationship and create an environment and conditions for joint work, with a view to achieving some kind of positive results. If one is going to have a fight with somebody else why bother and have a meeting? One's better off looking into budget and social policies domestically. We have many issues that we have to resolve. What's the point then? It's just a waste of time. Of course, one can present this for domestic political consumption, which I believe is what has been done in the US in the last two years, where the US-Russia relationship was sacrificed for the sake of a fierce political strife inside the US. We can see that. We know it very well. I think that, of course, this movement was used by one of the political forces domestically in the course of election campaigns. But there are some grounds for it. Let's remember Colin Powell who was Secretary of State, was in charge of the Pentagon. He even wrote in his book that even he as a high-ranking official had felt some kind of injustice towards himself his entire life as someone with a dark complexion. Even from the Soviet days, we in Russia, we have always treated with understanding the fight of African Americans for their rights. And there are certain roots to it. And there is a certain foundation for this. But no matter how noble the goals that somebody is driven by, if it reaches certain extremes, if it spills over into… if it acquires elements of extremism, we cannot approve this. We cannot welcome it. So our attitude to this is very simple. We support African Americans' fight for their rights, but we are against any types and kinds of extremism, which unfortunately sometimes, regrettably, we witness these days. Dear Keir, you have said that there is a weight of evidence of cyberattacks by Russia. And then you went on to list those official US agencies that have stated as much. Is that what you did? Right. You are conveying information to me as to who said that. But where is evidence that this was indeed done? I will tell you that this person has said that, that person has said this. But where is the evidence? Where is proof? When there are charges without evidence, I can tell you that you can take your complaint to the International League of Sexual Reform . This is a conversation that has no subject. Put something on the table so that we can look and respond. But there isn't anything like that. One of the latest attacks, as far as I know, was against the pipeline system in the US. Right, yes. So what? Just a moment. As far as I know, the shareholders of this company even made a decision to pay the ransom. They paid off the cyber gangsters. If you have listed an entire set of US special services , after all they can find whoever the ransom was paid. And once they do that, they will realise that Russia has nothing to do with it. Then there's the cyberattack against a meat processing plant. Next time they will say there was an attack against some Easter eggs. It's becoming farcical, like an ongoing farcical thing, never-ending farcical thing. You said ”plenty of evidence,“ but you haven't cited any proof. But again, this is an empty conversation, a pointless conversation. What exactly are we talking about? There's no proof. You know, the simplest thing to do would be for us to sit down calmly and agree on joint work in cyberspace. We did suggest that to Obama’s administration… In October. We started in September, and during his last year in office. In October at first they didn't say anything. Then in November, they came back to us and said that, yes, it was interesting. Then the election was lost. We restated this proposal to Mr Trump's administration. The response was that it is interesting, but it didn't come to the point of actual negotiations. There are grounds to believe that we can build an effort in this area with the new administration, that the domestic political situation in the US will not prevent this from happening. But we have proposed to do this work together. Let's agree on the principles of mutual work. Let's find out what we can do together. Let's agree on how we will structure counterefforts against the process that is gathering momentum. We here in the Russian Federation have cybercrimes that have increased many times over in the last few years. We are trying to respond to it. We are looking for cyber criminals. If we find them, we punish them. We are willing to engage with international participants, including the United States. You are the ones who have refused to engage in joint work. What can we do? We cannot build this work, we cannot structure this work unilaterally. I understand that. You know, as far as the war, NATO, and I'd like to draw your attention to that, has officially stated that it considers cyberspace a battlefield, an area of military action, and it conducts exercises in that battlefield. No. No, no, that is not correct. That is not current. Really. If we wanted to do that… NATO said that it considers cyberspace an area of combat. And it prepares and even conducts exercises. What stops us from doing that? If you do that, we will do the same thing. But we don't want that, just like we don't want space militarised, in the same manner we don't want cyberspace militarised. And we have suggested on many occasions, agreeing on mutual work in the cybersecurity area in this area. But your government refuses to. NBC correspondent Keir Simmons. What we count on is that nobody should interfere in domestic internal affairs of other countries, neither the US in ours nor we in the USA's political processes or any other nations. All nations of the world should be given an opportunity to develop calmly. Even if there are crisis situations they have to be resolved by the people domestically, without any influence or interference from the outside. I don't think that this call by the US administration, today's administration is worth anything. It appears to me that the US government will still continue to interfere in the political processes in other countries. I don't think that this process can be stopped, because it has gained a lot of momentum. However, as far as joint work in cyberspace for the prevention of some unacceptable actions on the part of cyber criminals, that is definitely something that can be agreed upon. And it is our great hope that we will be able to establish this process with our US partners. You mean if I were in America, what I would be afraid of? Is that the question? You know, this is just like space militarisation. This is a very dangerous area. At some point, in order to achieve something in the nuclear area in terms of confrontation in the area of nuclear weapons, the USSR and the United States did agree to contain this particular arms race. But cyberspace is a very sensitive area. As of today, a great deal of human endeavours rely upon digital technologies, including the functioning of government. And of course interference in those processes can cause a lot of damage and a lot of losses. And everybody understands that. And I I'm not afraid, but I bear in mind that it is a possibility. Who says that I feel threatened by opposition or we are threatened by opposition? Who told you that I’m scared by opposition? It's just funny. You are presenting it as dissent and intolerance towards dissent in Russia. We view it completely differently. You have mentioned the law on foreign agents, but that's not something that we invented. That law was passed back in the 1930s in the United States. And that law is much harsher than ours, and it is directed and intended, among other things, at preventing interference in the domestic political affairs of the United States. And on the whole, I believe that it is justified. Do you want me to keep answering? Let me answer. You've asked me a question. You are not liking my answer, so you're interrupting me. This is inappropriate. So there we go. In the United States, this law was adopted a long time ago. It's working, and sanctions under that law are much harsher than here, up to imprisonment. Yes, yes. Again you are not letting me… But I will revert to us. I will go back to us. Don't worry. I will not just be focused on US problems. I will revert and go back, and comment on what's happening here. No. If you muster patience and let me finish saying what I mean to say, everything will be clear to you. But you are not liking my answer. You don't want my answer to be heard by your audience. That is the problem. You are shutting me down. Is that free expression? Is that free expression American way? Here we go. The US adopted this law. We passed this law very recently in order to protect our society against outside interference. When in some of the states, a foreign observer comes to a polling station, the prosecutor says, ”Come a few feet closer, and you'll go to jail.“ Is that normal? Is that democracy in the modern world? But that is an actual practice in some of the states. We don't have anything like that. When I talk about these laws, about non-interference or attempts at interference, what do I mean as applied to Russia? Many entities of the so-called ”civil society“ – the reason I say ”so-called civil society“ is because many of those entities are funded from abroad. Specific relevant action programs are prepared. Their core members are trained abroad. And when our official authorities see that, in order to prevent this kind of interference in our domestic affairs, we make relevant decisions and adopt relevant laws. And they are more lenient than yours. We have a Yes, yes. There is also non-systemic opposition. You have said that some people have been detained. Some people are in prison. Yes, that is all true. You mentioned certain names. Yes, yes. I will talk about it. Yes. I will not leave any of your questions unattended. Of course not. We don't have this kind of habit, of assassinating anybody. That's one. Number two is I …have been detained. They're facing a jail time, between 15 and 25 years. And they came to the Congress with political demands. Isn't that persecution for political opinions? Some have been accused of plotting to topple, to take over government power. Some are accused of robbery. They didn't go there to rob. The people who you have mentioned, yes, they were convicted for violating their status, having been previously convicted, given convent, given suspended sentences which were essentially warning to not violate the Russian laws. And they completely ignored the requirements of the law. The court went on and passed and turned the conviction into real jail time. Thousands and thousands of people ignore requirements of the law – and they have nothing to do with political activities – in Russia every year and they go to jail. If somebody is actually using political activities as a shield to deal with their issues, including achieve their commercial goals, then it's something that they have to be held responsible for. Look, over my tenure, I've gotten used to attacks from all kinds of angles and from all kinds of areas under all kinds of pretexts and reasons and of different calibre and fierceness. And none of it surprises me. People with whom I work and with whom we argue, we are not bride and groom. We don't swear everlasting love and friendship. We are partners. And in some areas, we are rivals or competitors. As far as harsh rhetoric, I think that this is an expression of overall US culture. Of course, in Hollywood, because we mentioned Hollywood at the beginning of our conversation, there are some deep things in Hollywood macho which can be treated as cinematographic art but more often than not it’s macho behavior that is part of US-political culture where it's considered normal. By the way, not here. It is not considered normal here. If this rhetoric is followed by a suggestion to meet and discuss bilateral issues and matters of international policies, I see it as desire to engage in joint work. If this desire is serious, we're prepared to support it. I did answer. I will add, if you let me. I have heard dozens of such accusations, especially during the period of some grave events during our counterterrorism efforts in North Caucasus. And when it happens, I'm always guided by the interests of the Russian people and Russian state. And sentiments in terms of who calls somebody what, what kind of labels, this is not something I worry about in the least. Look, you know, I don't want to come across as being rude, but this looks like some kind of indigestion, except that it's verbal indigestion. You mentioned many individuals who indeed suffered and perished at different points in time for various reasons at the hand of different individuals. You mentioned Lesin. Lesin used to work in my administration. I liked him very much. He died, he perished or died in the United States. I'm not sure if he perished or died. We should ask you how exactly he perished. I regret to this day that he is not with us. In my opinion, he's a very decent person. As far as the others, we found some of the criminals who committed those crimes. Some are in prison, and we are prepared to continue to work in this mode and along this avenue, identifying everybody who violate the law and by their actions cause damage, including to the image of the Russian Federation. However, just piling everything together is meaningless, inappropriate and baseless. If one sees it as a line of attack, then very well. Let me listen to it one more time. But I'd like to repeat that I have heard it many times. But this doesn't baffle me. I know which direction to move in to secure the interests of the Russian state. No, I did not know about this. I didn't know about any airliner. I didn't know about the people who were detained there subsequently. I found out about it from the media. I didn't know, I didn't have a clue about any detainees. I don't know. It is of no interest to us. Not that I approve of it. Not that I condemn it. But, well, it happened. I said recently in one of the conversations with a European colleague, the version of Mr Lukashenko who told me about it was that information had been given to them that there was an explosive device on board the plane. They informed… …the pilot without forcing the pilot to land. And the pilot made a decision to land in Minsk. That is all. Why should I not believe him? Ask the pilot. It's the simplest thing. Ask the chief pilot. Ask the commander of the aircraft. Did you ask him if was he forced to land? Because I have not heard or seen an interview with the commander of the aircraft that landed in Minsk. Why not ask him? Why not ask him if he was forced to land? Why don't you ask him? It's actually even odd. Everybody accuses Lukashenko, but the pilot hasn't been asked. You know, I cannot but recall another similar situation where the plane of the President of Bolivia was forced to land in Vienna, the order of the US administration. Air Force One, a presidential plane, was forced to land. The President was taken out of the aircraft. They searched the plane. And you don't even recall that. Do you think it was normal, that was good, but what Lukashenko did was bad? Look, let us speak the same language and let us use the same concepts. If, well, Lukashenko is a gangster, how about the situation with the Bolivian President? Was it good? In Bolivia, they viewed it as humiliation of the whole country. But everybody kept mum not to aggravate the situation. Nobody is recalling that. By the way, this is not the only situation… This is not the only situation of this kind. If it’s him, you gave him an example to follow. Yes. Look, I will tell you one more time. What President Lukashenko told me, I don't have any reason not to believe him. For the third time, I'm …being scared? Was he being threatened? Was he being forced? The fact that information appeared that there was a bomb on the plane, that individuals, people who had nothing to do, who were passengers, who had nothing to do with politics or any kind of domestic conflicts, that they could perceive it negatively, could be worried about it, of course that's a bad thing. There is nothing good about this. And obviously, we condemn everything that has to do with this, and international terrorism, and the use of aircraft. Of course, we are against this. And you've told me that the landing of the aircraft of the President of Bolivia is a completely different matter. Yes, it is different except that it is ten times worse than what was done, if anything was done in Belarus. But you just won't acknowledge it. You are ignoring it, and you want millions of people around the world to either not notice it or forget about it tomorrow. You won't get away with it. It won't happen. Look, first, Ukraine itself constantly – and I think is still doing that – kept bringing personnel and military equipment to the conflict area in the southeast of Ukraine, Donbass. That's one. Two is that we conducted exercises in our territory and not just in the south of the Russian Federation but also in the Far East and in the north, in the Arctic. Simultaneously, military exercises were being held in different parts of the Russian Federation. At the same time, the US was conducting military exercises in Alaska. Do you know anything about it? Probably not. But I'll tell you that I do know. And that is in direct proximity to our borders. But that's in your territory, on your land. We didn't even pay attention to it. What is happening now? Now, at our southern borders, there is a war game, Defender Europe, 40,000 personnel, 15,000 units of military equipment. Part of them have been airlifted from the US continent directly to our borders. Did we airlift any of our military technology to the US borders? No, we did not. Why are you worried then? Some defence. During the USSR era, Gorbachev, who is still, thank God, with us, got a promise, a verbal promise that there would be no NATO expansion to the east. Where is that… …promise? Two ways of expansion. Right, right. Well done. Correct. You’ve got a point. Got you good. Well, congratulations. Of course, everything should be sealed and written on paper. But what was the point of expanding NATO to the east and bringing this infrastructure to our borders, and all of this before saying that we are the ones who have been acting aggressively? Why? On what basis? Did Russia after the USSR collapsed present any threat to the US or European countries? We voluntarily withdrew our troops from Eastern Europe. Leaving them just on empty land. Our people there, military personnel for decades lived there in what was not normal conditions, including their children. We went to tremendous expenses. And what did we get in response? We got in response infrastructure next to our borders. And now, you are saying that we are threatening somebody. We're conducting war games on a regular basis, including sometimes surprise military exercises. Why should it worry the NATO partners? I just don't understand that. Look, did we say that we were planning to send our armed formations anywhere? We were conducting war games in our territory. How can this not be clear? I'm saying it again because I want your audience to hear it, your listeners to hear it both on the screens of their televisions and on the internet. We conducted military exercises in our territory. Imagine if we sent our troops into direct proximity to your borders. What would have been your response? We didn't do that. We did it in our territory. You conducted war games in Alaska. God bless you. But you had crossed an ocean, brought thousands of personnel, thousands of units of military equipment close to our borders, and yet you believe that we are acting aggressively and somehow you're not acting aggressively. Just look at that. The pot calling the kettle black. I know that we have certain US citizens who are in prison, have been convicted, found guilty. But if one considers the number of Russian Federation citizens who are in US prisons, then these numbers don't even compare. They cannot be compared. The United States has made a habit in the last few years of catching Russian Federation citizens in third countries and take them to back to the US in violation of all international legal norms and put them in prison. I determine the time here, so don't worry about time. Your guy, the Marine, he's just a drunk and a troublemaker. As they say here, he got himself shitfaced and started a fight. Among other things, he hit a cop. It's nothing. It's just a common crime. There is nothing to it. As far as possible negotiations on the subject, sure it can be talked about. Obviously we'll raise the matter of our citizens who are in prison in the US. Yes, it can be a specific conversation. Sure. We're happy to do it although it doesn't seem that the US administration has raised that matter. But we're prepared to do that. Our pilot Yaroshenko has been in prison in the US for a good, I don't know how many years, 15, maybe 20 years. And there also the problem seems to be a common crime. We could and should talk about it. We haven't been talking about this, but we could. If the US side is prepared to discuss it, so are we. There is nothing offensive about it. He got drunk on vodka and started a fight. He fought a cop. There is nothing offensive about it. These things happen in life. There is nothing horrible about it. It happens to our men as well. Somebody gulps down some vodka and starts a fight. So you violate the law, you go to prison. What would have happened if he'd fought a cop, if he'd hit a cop in your country? He would have been shot dead on that spot, and that’s the end of it. Isn't that the case? Yes, of course. Even better would be a discussion of the possibility of entering into an agreement on extradition of individuals who are in prison. This is standard international practice. We have such agreements with several countries. We're prepared to enter into such an agreement with the United States. Well, we have a whole list. I just mentioned a pilot, a pilot named Yaroshenko who was taken to the US from a third country and was given a lengthy sentence. He has major health issues, but the prison administration is not paying attention to this. You have mentioned that your citizen has coronavirus, but nobody's paying attention to the health issues of our citizen. We're prepared to discuss these issues. Moreover, it makes sense, as you correctly said, and I completely agree with you, there are matters of humanitarian nature. And why not discuss them as long as they pertain to the health and life of specific individuals and of their families? Of course. Sure thing. Look, such decisions in this country are not made by the President. They're made by the court whether or not to set somebody free. As far as the health, all individuals who are in prison, that is something that the administration of the specific prison or penitentiary establishment is responsible for. And there are medical facilities in penitentiaries that are perhaps not in the best condition. And they are the ones whose responsibility it is. And I hope that they do it properly. But to be honest, I have not visited such places for a long time. I visited one in St Petersburg some time ago and that was a very grave impression that was made on me by the medical facilities in a prison. But since then, I hope, some things have been done to improve the situation. And I proceed from the premise that the person that you have mentioned, the same kind of measures will apply to that person, not in any way worse than to anybody else who happens to be in prison. Oh, I don’t care. Please, listen to me carefully. His name can be anything. He's one of the individuals who are in prison. For me, he is one of the citizens of the Russian Federation who has been found guilty by a court of law and is in prison. There are many citizens like that. By the way, our so-called prison population, the people who are in prison, has in the last few years been reduced by almost 50%, which I consider a big victory for us and a major sign of our legal system becoming more humane. He will not be treated any worse than anybody else. Nobody should be given any kind of special treatment. It would be wrong. Everybody should be in an equal situation. This is called the most favoured nation treatment. Not worse than anybody else. And the person that you have mentioned, that applies to him as well. The first thing I want to say is that over the last few years, the last few decades, we have developed a strategic partnership relationship between Russia and China that previously had not been achieved in the history of our nations, a Don’t you know anything about this? That's number one. Number two is that China is a huge, powerful country, 1.5 billion. In terms of purchasing power parity, the Chinese economy has exceeded that of the United States. And in terms of trade for the previous year, last year, China has tied Europe for the first place, whereas the US has dropped to the second position. Do you know about this? China has been developing. And I understand that what's beginning is a certain kind of confrontation with China. Everybody understands it. We can see it. Why hide from and be scared of these issues? However, we're not alarmed by it, including, among other things, by the fact that our defence sufficiency, which is how we describe it, is at a very high level, including because of this. But the most important thing is the nature and level of our relationship with China. You said China will have four aircraft carriers. How many does the United States have? There you go. That's my point. Why would we worry about the Chinese aircraft carriers? On top of everything else, we have a hugely vast border with China, but it's a land border. It’s a land border. What? Do you think the Chinese aircraft carriers will cross our land border? This is just a meaningless conversation. You are right, that there will be four of them. It is correct that there will be four of them. Right. Coast? Well, the coast is huge. But the bulk of the border between us and China is a land border. And, yes you're right that there will be four of them because one needs to be in maintenance, one needs to be on combat duty, one needs to be in repairs. There is nothing excessive here for China. That is why what you said, that China won't engage in negotiations on arms control, it refuses to negotiate reductions in nuclear offensive weapons. You should ask the Chinese about it, whether it's good or bad. It's for them to decide. You know, I have met certain Uyghurs. It's always possible to find individuals who criticise the central authorities. I have met Uyghurs on my trips to China, and I assure you at the very least what I heard with my own ears, that on the whole they welcome the policies of the Chinese authorities in this area. They believe that China has done a great deal for people who live in this part of the country from the perspective of the economy, raising the cultural level, and so on and so forth. So why should I offer assessments looking at the situation from outside? As far as the Muslim community in Russia, I need to give a message to it through policies of the Russian authorities vis-à-vis Muslims in the Russian Federation. That is how I need to give my message to the Muslim community in the Russian Federation. We're an observer in the Organisation of Islamic Conference. About 10% of our population, probably a little more, are Muslims. They are citizens of the Russian Federation who do not have any other fatherland. They're making a colossal contribution to the development of our country. And that pertains to both clerics and ordinary citizens. Why should I speak to and build a relationship with this part of our population by reference to the situation in China without understanding thoroughly what is happening there? I think that you're better off asking about all these problems the foreign minister of the People's Republic of China or the US State Department. You know, we are neighbouring countries. One does not choose one's neighbours. We are pleased with the level, as I said, – unprecedentedly high level of our relationship as it has evolved over the last few decades, and we cherish it, just like our Chinese friends cherish it, which we can see. Why are you trying to drag us into some kind of matters that you evaluate as you see it fit for building your relationship with China? I will tell you completely… Can I speak…? Can I be completely honest? We can see attempts at destroying the relationship between Russia and China. We can see that those attempts are being made in practical policies. And your questions, too, have to do with it. I have set forth my position for you. I believe that this is sufficient, and I'm confident that the Chinese leadership being aware of the totality of these matters, including the part of their population who are Uyghurs, will find the necessary solution to make sure that the situation remains stable and benefits the entire multi-million-strong Chinese people, including its Uyghur part. No, why? We are prepared to work with the US in space. And I think recently the head of NASA said that he could not imagine development of space programmes without its partnership with Russia. We welcome this statement and we value it. Well, honestly, I don't think that Mr Rogozin, that is the name of the head of Roscosmos, has threatened anyone in this regard. I've known him for many years, and I know that he is a supporter of expanding the relationship with the US in this area, in space. Recently, the head of NASA spoke in the same vein. And I personally fully support this. And we have been working with great pleasure all of these years, and we're prepared to continue to work. For technical reasons though, and that's a different matter, is that the International Space Station is coming to an end of its service life. And maybe in this regard, Roscosmos does not have plans to continue their work. However based on what I heard from our US partners, they, too, are looking at future cooperation in this particular segment in their certain way. But on the whole, the cooperation between our two countries in space is a great example of a situation where, despite any kind of problems in political relationships in recent years, it's an area where we have been able to maintain and preserve the partnership and both parties cherish it. I think you just misunderstood what the head of the Russian space programme said. We are interested in continuing to work with the US in this direction, and we will continue to do so if our US partners don't refuse to do that. It doesn't mean that we need to work exclusively with the US. We have been working and will continue to work with China, which applies to all kinds of programmes, including exploring deep space. And I think there is nothing but positive information here. Frankly, I don't see any contradictions here. I don't think any mutual exclusivity here. What? Are you aware of China's plans to militarily solve the Taiwan problem? I don't know anything about it. As we frequently say, politics do not require the subjunctive mood. The subjunctive mood is inappropriate in politics. There is no ”could be“ and ”would be“ in politics. I cannot comment on anything that is not a current reality of the modern world. Please, bear with me. Don't be angry with me. But I think this is a question about nothing. This is not happening. Has China stated that it intends to solve the Taiwan problem militarily? It hasn't happened. For many years, China has been developing its relationship with Taiwan. There are different assessments. China has its own assessment. The US has a different assessment. Taiwan may have its different assessment of the situation. But fortunately, it hasn't come to a military clash. Sure, please. Go ahead. Look, unfortunately, there are a great deal of tragedies there already. And all our actions in their totality need to be geared at stabilising the situation and bringing it into a normal course. And with support of Russia, Syria has been able, the Syrian authorities have been able to bring back under their control over 90% of the Syrian territory. What needs to be set up now is just humanitarian assistance to people, irrespective of any kind of political context. But our partners in the West, in the West in general, both the US and Europeans have been saying that they're not going to give help to Assad. What does Assad have to do with it? Help out people who need that assistance. Just the most basic things. They won't even lift restrictions on supplies of medications and medical equipment even in the context of the coronavirus infection. But that is just inhumane. And this kind of cruel attitude to people cannot be explained in any way. As far as the border crossings, there is the Idlib area where combatants are still robbing people, killing people, raping people. There is nothing's happening. There is the Al-Tanf Zone, which by the way is controlled by US military. Recently there we caught a group of gangsters, bandits who came, who had come from there. And they directly said that they had specific goals as far as Russian military facilities. As far as border crossings, our position is such that assistance needs to be given just as it should be done in the entire world, as it is provided for in the provisions of international humanitarian law. Assistance should be given through the central government. It shouldn't be discriminated against. And if there are grounds to believe that the central government of Syria will plunder something, well, set up observers on the part of the International Red Cross and Red Crescent oversee everything. I don't think that anybody in the Syrian government is interested in stealing some part of this humanitarian assistance. It just needs to be done through the central government. And in this sense, we support President Assad because a different mode of behavior would be undermining the sovereignty of the Syrian Arab Republic. And that's all. As far as the Idlib zone, the Turkish troops there effectively control the border between Turkey and Syria, and convoys cross the border without any restrictions on their numbers in both directions. What will collapse overnight? If we look at the situation in which Russia was in the year 2000, where it was balancing on the brink of preserving its territorial integrity and sovereignty, the number of individuals below the poverty line was colossal. It was catastrophic. The GDP level had dropped below anything that's acceptable. Our FX and gold reserves were $12 billion, whereas our foreign debt was $120 billion, if we count it in dollars. Now, there are many other problems. The situation is completely different. Of course, somebody will come and replace me at some point. Is all of this going to collapse? We've been fighting international terrorism. We have nipped it in the bud. Is it supposed to come back to life? I don't think so. Another matter is that on the political scene, different people can emerge with different points of view. Great. Very good. You know, I have linked my entire life, my entire fate to the fate of my country to such an extent that there isn't a more meaningful goal in my life than the strengthening of Russia. If anybody else, and if I see that person, even if that person is critical of some areas of what I have been doing, if I can see that this is an individual who has constructive views, that he or she is committed to this country and is prepared to sacrifice his entire life to this country, nor just some years, no matter his personal attitude to me, I will make sure, I will do everything to make sure that such people will get support. It is a natural biological process. At some point, someday, we will all be replaced. You will be replaced at where you are. I will be replaced at where I am. But I am confident that the fundamental pillar of the Russian economy and statehood and its political system will be such that Russia will be firmly standing on its feet and look into the future confidently. I am not even thinking about that. These are third-tier issues. The most important thing, the single most important thing is the fate of the country and the fate of its people.
Your Highness Emir Tamim, Mr Federal Chancellor Kurz, ladies and gentlemen, friends, I welcome all the participants and guests of the 24th St Petersburg International Economic Forum. As you know, since the beginning of last year, most meetings at many traditional venues have been cancelled or were attended remotely because of the pandemic. We are happy that after this long break, Russia is hosting the first major international business event and providing a platform for representatives of the global business community to communicate with each other, not only using modern telecommunications, but directly. At the same time, we have certainly done our best to ensure the participants’ safety and adopted the most stringent sanitary protocols. I repeat, the very fact that this massive forum is being held is certainly a positive sign. This once again shows that partner-like ties and contacts between entrepreneurs, investors and experts are gradually becoming customary and normal once again. We are also witnessing the same positive global economic trends. Despite the all-out 2020 slump that, according to experts, was the greatest since World War II, one can already safely say that the global economy is returning to normal. The global GDP is expected to post unusually high growth rates this year, the biggest rise since the 1970s. As you know, experts are talking about six percent growth. This, of course, was an effect of the large-scale and extraordinary decisions made by economic authorities worldwide. By the way, practice showed that traditional monetary policy measures would not be enough to overcome the current crisis. The budgetary policy that was actively supported by central banks in developing countries for the first time has played a key role in the rapid economic recovery. We should understand that leading economies have many resources and tools for stimulating business activity. It is common sense that I place my stake on, and the specific conditions the world and the Russian economy are facing. The share of the state is growing all over the world, in all countries, during a time of crisis. It happens everywhere, just look and see. As soon as the situation stabilises, the number of private businesses grows, both the number of companies and their turnover. There is nothing new for Russia here. We have large companies with state participation, such as Gazprom, Rosneft and others. But they are only partially owned by the state, they are not state-owned companies in the direct meaning of the word. However, we are perfectly aware and understand that we must move further in the direction of privatisation. And it is what we are doing. We have gathered here in the way that was recommended to us by specialists, by sanitary doctors. They believe gathering in this format is fine. Unfortunately, we were unable to welcome the top officials who are attending our event online. The problem is not with the top officials but with the fact that they are accompanied by large delegations. Doctors told us that this would be hard to monitor and this is why we should exercise caution. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that some of our colleagues sitting here in the room are wearing masks and gloves. Half of the world are staying at home. Our situation is better than in many other countries. However, the pandemic is not over yet and we must watch out. It is summer, people are mixing, there are a lot of contacts. Regrettably, many people keep thinking the way they used to, that they will not be affected, and they ignore the recommendations doctors are urging us to follow. Nevertheless, the current situation in Russia and St Petersburg allows us to hold such events without any particular risk of spreading the infection. We are doing what corresponds to the current situation in Russia. I would like to say, as I have said repeatedly, I want to stress that this is a purely economic, commercial project. If someone thinks or considers its goal is to bypass certain transit countries, that is not true. Because the route along the bottom of the Baltic Sea from Russia to the Federal Republic of Germany is shorter in terms of kilometres – I want to be heard once again – shorter than via European countries – Ukraine, Slovakia, Austria and so on. This route is shorter and cheaper. This is number one. Secondly, there are no political risks regarding transit countries and there is no need to pay for the transit. It is economically more viable. It means that the end consumer in Germany – both the utilities companies, households and the economy – will be getting it cheaper than via transit through several European countries. It is just economically more practical. We said it a hundred times; still some sort of malign propaganda keeps being stuffed into people’s heads with the idea that there is politics at play here and a wish to bypass some countries. Why do you think our partners are fighting for this project the way they are, to please us? They are fighting for their national interests, that is what they are fighting for. I think it must be completed, especially as the new US administration keeps saying that it wants to build good relations with their major partners in Europe. How can one build good relations with their partners and at the same time not care about their interests? This is pure nonsense. Next. Our gas source is the cleanest in the world. Let me tell you why. Because the US gas industry extracts approximately 77 percent, over 70 percent of gas by fracking whereas Gazprom uses fracking to extract only 11 percent. But the gas that will be transported via Nord Stream 2 is pumped straight from under the surface. There is no fracking at all. Meanwhile, fracking is a catastrophic way to extract gas from the environmental point of view. Dozens and hundreds of tonnes of chemicals are pumped underground when fracking. This causes direct damage to the environment. We all keep talking about the environment – and here you are, this is the most glaring example of what is being done and how. Sanctions are generally harmful for the world economy; they reduce the world economy instead of helping to expand it. But in this case, it is just a way of achieving unfair competition. If we talk about such a source of energy as natural gas for the world economy, let us keep in mind that it is the best, most wanted product for the fairly long period of transition to green energy. Of all hydrocarbons it will remain in the market the longest since it is the most environmentally friendly carrier. I think such projects are being implemented to meet the interests not only of Russia but also of its partners in Europe, I am sure of that, and they must be implemented. I have already said that the pipe-laying for the first line has been completed. I hope that the second line with a capacity of 27.5 billion cubic metres will be completed within a month and a half or two, most likely two months. Now, I repeat, we need several days to… Here is Mr Miller sitting opposite me, he tells me about it every day. Two pipes have been laid, the laying operations are over. Now these pipes must be lifted from both sides – the one that came from the German shore and the one from the Russian shore, then welded, and that is it. It will probably take ten days. Gazprom is ready for deliveries, but everything will depend on the German regulator. I do not know if the German government delegation has come back from Washington or not; they had talks on how to build their relations with their US partners. Their gas is more expensive, do you see? To say nothing of the way it is extracted, which, let us be frank, is barbaric. On top of that it is 25 percent more expensive. Either buy a cheaper product of a higher quality from us, or buy a product which is extracted in a complicated way from the environmental point of view, let us put it this way. Germany’s Greens advocate buying American LNG. But if they are really green, they should know that over 70 percent of the gas is extracted by fracking, and what it means for the environment. Let us look at this systematically and honestly, and draw conclusions. And the conclusions are that the gas here is more environmentally safe, cleaner, cheaper and more reliable. This is why our partners opted for this project. Do you think we must feed everyone? What, are we obliged to feed everyone? I asked my press secretary, Mr Peskov, to say a few words about this but as I have the opportunity to say that myself, I will. Look, first, we still have a gas transit contract with Ukraine. We will be pumping up to 40 billion cubic metres over the next five years. In better years the volumes were, I think, nearly 200. In 2018, we delivered to Europe over 200 billion cubic metres of gas. If we had normal relations, we would have delivered a major part of this through Ukraine. But Ukraine comes up with problems in this area, problems that have emerged not so much in politics but rather in the economic sphere because of their having a monopoly on gas transit creates the illusion, on the one hand, that they can raise transit prices sky high and on the other that they can try to make the gas price, which they buy directly through their contracts with Russia, as low as possible. Monopolies are bad, that’s exactly the point. It is not even about politics, all this began earlier. A while back we signed a memorandum with Ukraine. Mr Chancellor, the former Chancellor of Germany Gerhard Schroeder is present here. I, your humble servant, Mr Schroeder as Chancellor and Mr Kuchma, the then President of Ukraine, signed a memorandum on moving towards establishing, on the basis of the Ukrainian GTS, a consortium of Russia, Ukraine and European partners – not just with the Federal Republic of Germany but also with other partners. All that would remain Ukraine’s property and the consortium would repair, maintain, develop it and so on. Then another president came to power, Mr Yushchenko, and all that was scrapped. Then delivery scandals began and by 2008 deliveries stopped altogether because Ukraine blocked the transit. These are the risks, do you understand? The point is not that Ukraine has no money to maintain its army. At present they get $1.5 billion from us. They could receive three, four or five . You wrecked everything with your own hands. But, let me repeat, we have a five-year contract for 40 billion . However, we proceed from the assumption that deliveries to Europe will be growing. The delivery volume may increase by 50 billion cubic metres in the coming ten years. There has been record-high consumption and record-high purchases in the first quarter of this year. Last year we delivered around 180 billion while this year we can go beyond 200 billion cubic metres because demand is on the rise, the economy direly needs gas as it is developing and recovering from the pandemic. But in the coming ten years delivery volumes to Europe may increase by another 50 billion. There you have it, there is an opportunity to use the Ukrainian gas pipeline network in the future, even after our transit contract expires. Everything is possible, we are ready for this and we want it to happen, but goodwill from our Ukrainian partners is required. They should be spending money not on sustaining their army and utilising it to resolve their problems in Donbass by force, but on boosting their economy, working with people, see what I mean? We proceed from the fact that we have complicated relations with Ukraine’s leadership, yet we take into consideration how people are getting on there. If only we had normal relations. Currently the gas price for the population is around $62–$63 per a thousand cubic metres. And what do you think the price in Ukraine is? Yesterday at the gas hub price stood at $330 dollars per thousand cubic metres. Add transporting, and Ukrainians get their gas for about $350. Belarus pays about three times less for our gas than the hub price, I will not give the numbers now whereas Ukrainins pay more than that, you see? We need to establish normal economic relations. We want this and are ready for it. We hope that one day their decision-making will be guided by first and foremost common sense. Stability, predictability and reliability matter. The currency does not. But if the currency producer, in this case the United States, does not value its national currency as an international reserve currency – and, by all appearances, the United States does not value the dollar too much since it is used as an instrument in competition and political strife – that, certainly, damages the dollar as a world reserve currency. If we look at what is happening , the dollar-based gold and foreign currency reserves of many countries, including allies of the United States, are diminishing, as is the scope of dollar transactions. For now, our operators prefer to work with dollars. As an exchange commodity, oil is tied to the dollar more than gas, which is not an exchange commodity. This is why, generally speaking, we are ready to consider transactions in national currencies as well. We are already doing it with many of our country partners. We are ready to consider euro payments. Euro is completely acceptable for gas transactions. Of course, it is possible and, perhaps, it should be done. However, if oil producers no longer operate in dollars, it will seriously hit the dollar as a world reserve currency. We do not want to use these instruments for political tinkering of any kind, and we are not going to do that. But the logic of the global economic system’s development, the global currency system, indicates that we need multiple reserve currencies to guarantee the security and stability of the global economy and the financial system. We are thinking about that carefully. By working with the people and companies in those countries who do not consider us their enemies. A delegation of US businesspeople is traditionally present at the St Petersburg International Economic Forum. A year or two ago, it was the largest one. There you go. … 200 participants. This is the best indicator that US business is interested in working in Russia. Despite all the political restrictions, it strives to keep its positions on the Russian market. It is interesting and promising. Some companies, our foreign partners, maintain their capitalisation precisely because they are working in Russia and have rather large assets here. Of course, this applies to energy in particular. Therefore, we rely on the people who have enough common sense to build a positive relationship. I do not quite understand this logic. The thing is, we did not spend the entire funds we had planned to utilise, as some experts say. There is nothing unusual here because this happens quite often. This is a case of money being set aside for specific purposes, but later this money is either not allocated or not utilised, because the operators that planned certain project-related spending may prove unprepared to accept the money and start on their projects. This is a common economic practice. Frankly speaking, there is nothing unusual about this. However, it is true that we have the necessary resources. We will have a surplus budget this year. We have a trade balance with a decent surplus. Mr Siluanov might correct me, but I think there is around $146 billion there. Our gold and foreign exchange reserves are at over $600 billion now and growing, and the National Welfare Fund has around $159 billion. Those are the approximate figures, I may be mistaken in the details, but this is not important. These reserves are growing and this is what matters. We decided that if the liquid portion of the National Welfare Fund exceeds 7 percent of GDP, we will spend money primarily on large infrastructure projects. But they must be properly prepared, and we must do the maths. We should not, like a rural seeder, mindlessly scatter seeds left and right like in the famous painting. Therefore, everything should be calculated and rationally spent, with maximum effect. Actually, this explains everything, rather than greed and unwillingness to spend. This is what we are doing. We have already allocated significant funds from the NWF. I am sure the Finance Minister spoke, and our other colleagues from the Government must have mentioned it. I cannot give you an exact figure now, I might be off a little, but hundreds of billions of rubles have been released for the infrastructure projects and other large projects. True, we are trying to invest them in projects that will make profit. Maybe not today, not in a year, but these projects will pay back in the long term. From an economic point of view, this is the right approach in the interests of the state. We are already doing this and will continue to do so. These projects concern rail transport and the construction of roads, ring roads, and so on. We are already doing this. By all means, we are making these funds available for developing industrial production and building large industrial projects and facilities. Mr Mikhelson, I believe, received it. Did Novatek receive money? You see. It was for liquefying gas in cooperation with our partners from China and France. Russia supports this type of projects and releases these funds, including from the National Welfare Fund. No, I do not read him . I can. Naturally, those who take money want to do this cheaper. Those who give money, especially the Central Bank, must watch macroeconomic indicators. Macroeconomic indicators and, generally speaking, what problems do we have in Russia today? I spoke with some of my colleagues about this yesterday and even today in the morning. Did I say that? I do not feel that. No. But issues related to law enforcement are really essential and we must, in fact, focus on this. You know my attitude; law enforcement agencies should safeguard the interests of the state and society, and of this country’s citizens. You know, this is a specific case that needs to be investigated; I cannot just simply comment on it. Since you have raised this issue, I will focus on it. Of course, the faster these processes proceed, the sooner the investigation and court action come to an end, the better. I think it is competition for money on the part of those who make similar products in other countries and want to enter the European market. They do this with their usual brilliance. They are good at it. It is not just about reading headlines. I will not mention names, well, I was talking with one EU leader, and he said to me, you want to split our countries apart and strike separate deals. Why don't you apply to the relevant European agency? I say, we already did. He says, no you didn’t. I say, yes we did. He says, no. I say, maybe I am wrong, and immediately, I call Golikova and ask her if we have applied. She says, of course we did, last year. And only in March, the relevant European agency announced it was starting the review procedure. As you see, they are still reviewing it. What does that mean? It is about certain interests, and those engaged in the same industry ensure their interests by securing the market for companies they have been working with for many years. It is a layered system of mutual interests, but I will not go into details now. What you just said about politics is just a tool for ensuring commercial interests, that's all. Apart from this, there is nothing else there. Different European countries behave differently, and not necessarily for political reasons, but because some of them have the appropriate national agencies, labs that evaluate pharmaceuticals, while others don’t, and they have to wait for the European regulator’s decision. Those who have labs, they make their own decision like Hungary, for example. Hungary has certified and is rolling out Sputnik V. I know a political agenda is always present, to some extent, but in this case, I would say we are mostly dealing with economic, commercial interests that are hurting the interests of the citizens of European countries. You see, there are many reasons. Not everyone gets the flu jab in our country. That is the general attitude of the public. I already said in my speech that we are ready to give a jab to everyone who is willing to get vaccinated, we will not force anyone. It is possible and necessary to encourage people to do so, perhaps it is even better if we do so. In many countries, those who get vaccinated get a free beer, or they come up with other incentives. One can act in more civilised ways, I suppose. The most important thing here is to make sure that people understand the need, the advantages and the safety of vaccination. Apparently, we are not doing enough. We must work on ourselves first of all, I mean the bodies of authority and governance. Maybe. Get a jab then get some beer and sausage – this can be done. We will discuss bilateral issues. I believe we must try to find ways to settle our relations. Today, they are at an extremely low level, and we are all well aware of it. We will discuss strategic stability, the settlement of international conflicts in the hot spots that cause our greatest concern, disarmament processes, fighting terrorism, and, I hope, fighting against the pandemic and the issue of the environment. This is a tentative agenda. You should ask Biden about that, I do not know. We are not imposing any sanctions. We respond only when we believe it is advisable to do so, so as not to harm ourselves, not to shoot ourselves in the foot. Why our US partners are doing what they have been doing so far remains largely a mystery. I believe, I am even confident that this is primarily happening under the influence of their internal political processes. To a certain extent, Russia-US relations have become hostage to the domestic political processes in the United States. I hope it will come to an end sooner or later. I mean that fundamental interests in security, strategic stability and the reduction of weapons that represent danger for the entire world are still more important than the current domestic political situation in the United States. Theoretically, yes, but improbable at the practical level. What is actually the problem? You mentioned differences, but we don’t have any differences with the United States. Our only disagreement is that the United States wants to restrain our development and has said this openly. Everything else stems from this position, including economic restrictions and attempts to influence internal political developments in our country based on forces they regard as their supporters. End of story. Of course, we are monitoring the developments there. But we never interfere, we never meddle. Much is being said now about the elections and political processes in Russia and several other countries. Elections have been held in the United States as well, and nearly half of the US voters believe that the elections were unfair. You can see this from the polls conducted in the United States by American pollsters. We did not invent this, you see? Why should we invent anything? We are not to blame for these results. We did not say this. It is the result of the polls held by American companies. Some people were disappointed. You are well aware of what happened at the beginning of the year, when protesters stormed the Congress. Is this good or bad? There is nothing good in this. But they were not just looters or rioters. They had political demands, right? Right. As many as 450 people have been detained; criminal action has been initiated against them. Seventy people were detained immediately, and 31 of them remain under arrest to this day. On what grounds? Has anyone told us anything about this? No. But this is part of politics. Harsh charges have been levelled at many of these people, all the way to a conspiracy to seize power. Why? Now let us not talk about Russia. Belarus, too, has many internal problems. We would like to take a neutral position; in fact, it is all up to the Belarusian people, it is their business. But the same things there are viewed from a different angle, while what is happening in the States is assessed differently. Double standards. Those should be eliminated. Or, they say Russian law enforcement officers act too harshly during some street rallies. Now, what about shooting protesters with rubber bullets in European countries, knocking out people's eyes, killing people on the streets, using water cannons, or tear gas – is this normal? I was speaking with a colleague of mine, one of our partners – also without names – about Belarus. I ask him, “How about your country? Is this allowed?” And he says, “We are a democratic country.” This is ridiculous, you know. So a rubber bullet knocks out a person’s eye, and you just tell the victim – it is okay, this is a democratic rubber bullet, it is all right. But this does not make people feel any better, does it? We need common standards, approaches and assessments that are uniformly understood. Can this be achieved? I would say it is highly unlikely, I mean because these things are being used as political pressure tools. But we need to strive for this. You know, we have all sorts of jokes about things that are impossible to be done but you should “strive” for them. So, just strive for this if there is nothing else you can do. Firstly, I said right away I did not think what they did was good; you might not have been paying attention. Secondly, I offered no assessments of the event. I was talking about what followed. And thirdly, I do not care if they block me on some platform. I have more important things to care about – the Russian people’s confidence in me in this capacity. You see, I don’t want to make any judgement on what happened in the United States or on what happened with that flight. Frankly, I don’t know. No, of course not. I have seen a statement from NATO leadership to the effect that Russia must have been involved. Well, I can only say to this that NATO is in danger if their leaders make such statements, because it means they are simply not aware of how processes like this work. This is done very differently, not at all how some people think it is done. No international cooperation is possible in such things, you see? In Moscow, we detained people who were planning a coup and Lukashenko’s assassination, but we did this at the request of the Belarusian KGB. As the President of Belarus told me, they did not plan any operation like this. They only received information that this person was on that flight after his picture had been posted online. I don’t want to get involved in this matter, you know? This does not concern us at all. Let me repeat, I don’t want to offer any evaluation of the political processes underway in Belarus. The truth is, as usual, somewhere in the middle. Thus, it’s better not to interfere, it is better to give people time to grapple with their problems. Anyway, no matter what others say about a regime suppressing people, social change will only take place in keeping with the objective circumstances that are related to the development of a given society. It is no good interfering, never. As for planes, I would like to remind you that a world leader’s plane was forced to land. Yes, you are right, it was Evo Morales. He was invited to disembark, and a head of state’s plane was searched. Nobody wants to talk about this, as if it never happened. But it did happen, and it has actually happened more than once, and not only with a presidential plane. But with this, it took on an incredible form and was given a lot of attention. The reason is obvious. It is not only that developments in Belarus attract much attention, but also that many of our neighbours would like to influence them. Not that it is prohibited to notice things, but it is better not to interfere in others’ internal affairs. This is what I wanted to say. Stanislav, sorry for interrupting you. We have a huge audience here. St Petersburg is hosting an international economic forum, and you are pestering us with these questions, me and the Chancellor. Who is Roman Protasevich? I neither know nor care about him, let him do what he wants, fight Lukashenko’s regime… I will not say. We have a fairly high level of mutual trade, almost $30 billion. It is quite a large figure for Belarus, with a population of 10 million. This already says a lot. We have broad cooperation, industrial cooperation first of all. I believe this is very important. We will expand it further, and we will go about this as it is done anywhere else in the world – we will look for options and ways of working together that would meet the interests of both countries. We have every reason to believe we will be able to achieve this in industry, agriculture and energy. In this sense, we are no different from the rest of the world – the buyer wants a cheaper bargain, and the seller does not want to undersell. We are going to find optimal solutions as part of the Union State as well as in the EAEU. We have certain plans for the coming years, including some in the energy sector that should be implemented by 2024. We are keeping with this plan. Yes, we argue. Yes, we sometimes disagree or are dissatisfied with each other, but overall, the work is being done in a positive manner and with good results. To begin with, our tax system is generally stable. Indeed, the government must respond to what’s happening around the world and in our economy and do it carefully on a case-by-case basis so the entire fabric of economic relations in the country is not damaged. You mentioned tax increases . Earlier today, I also talked about tax cuts, for example, I said that small and medium companies in retail and restaurants would not pay VAT. This is what I said earlier. There have been both tax cuts and tax increases but, overall, the situation can be described as balanced. What we need to keep in mind is that we keep the fiscal load affordable and stable. By and large, the government has managed to achieve this. As for metals manufacturers, I am asking my colleagues – I know them by name as we have been acquainted for many years – to not be offended by Mr Belousov. He might have sounded somewhat sharp in the heat of the debate. Why is that? The fact of the matter is that the situation in the market has changed, and the industry began taking in excess profits. It’s quite obvious. Then, of course, this industry wants high profitability not only from exports but domestically as well. It’s understandable; why should they lose money if they can earn it? On the other hand, this can lead to some imbalances in the economy. Why? For example, a company wants to buy vehicles and they sign contracts and are ready to pay, but the vehicle manufacturer says, “You need to pay 68 percent more.” The buyer asks, “Why?” First, the pandemic has shown us all how vulnerable we are – this is my first point. Second, we have realised the role and importance of science and high technologies, as well as joint efforts in overcoming common crises. We have come to realise that we can only achieve the results we need if we join our efforts. The pandemic has certainly given a boost to high-tech and advanced types of production and to what determines and what will determine progress in the near future – I am referring to artificial intelligence, information technology, and so on. But, in my opinion, the most important thing is that we realised that good health and human communication are of the highest value. We all lacked this during the pandemic and are still lacking it. We realised that good health and human communication are our highest values. We must keep this in mind when building our life in the near and the more distant future. I want to thank you all, most notably, the Emir of Qatar and the Chancellor of the Republic of Austria, for taking part in our discussions and our event today, and wish you all the best. Thank you.
President Xi Jinping, my dear friend, First of all, I am delighted to see you and to be able to attend this landmark event. Colleagues, I would like to join the President of China in congratulating you all on the beginning of construction of four power units at the Tianwan NPP and the Xudapu NPP. During this ceremony, President Xi and I will launch the concreting of the foundation of these power units. Russian and Chinese specialists are working on this flagship joint project which is truly a milestone. They are building powerful, modern Russian-designed nuclear reactors that meet all safety and environmental standards. It is planned that they will start operating as soon as in 2026–2028, which, as President Xi just said, will be a solid contribution to China’s energy security. Chinese consumers will have access to larger volumes of inexpensive and clean electric power. The Tianwan NPP, which will be expanded with new power units, was itself built with Russia’s participation and has been successfully operating since 2007. I am confident that the Russian reactors at the Xudapu NPP will operate as seamlessly and effectively. Rosatom is the company in charge of building nuclear power facilities in China in cooperation with its Chinese partners. Rosatom relies on the advanced practices and expertise of Russian scientists as well as Russia’s unique high technology capabilities in industrial production. I should note that strict sanitary measures are observed at all construction sites where Russian and Chinese nuclear power specialists are working, commensurate with the current epidemiological situation. All necessary measures are being taken to protect the health of both permanent workers and contractors. President Xi and I determined the main areas of our genuinely close partnership, the cooperation between Russia and China on nuclear technology, during my state visit to China in 2018. Cooperation in the area of peaceful nuclear development is an essential component of the entire scope of Russia−China strategic partnership, which is extensive, truly friendly and mutually beneficial. Very soon, we will be celebrating 20 years of our core bilateral document, the Treaty of Good-Neighbourliness, Friendship and Cooperation. Since the signing of this treaty,
Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I am happy to welcome you here at this ceremony to present your credentials. Given that the epidemiological situation is still complicated, this event is being held with certain protocol restrictions and adjustments. I think you understand the importance of the format of today’s meeting. But what is most important is that we are meeting at the Kremlin and I can personally congratulate you on officially commencing your diplomatic activities here in the Russian Federation.
Mr President, Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, Our discussion today has demonstrated our deep mutual concern over climate change and our interest in stepping up international efforts to resolve this problem. The success of our efforts will largely determine the future of the entire planet, the development prospects of every country, people’s welfare and their quality of life. We believe that the universal agreements reached at the UN provide a reliable legal framework for the joint efforts of states to control and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. I would like to point out that Russia is scrupulously implementing its international commitments in this sphere. This concerns, first of all, the implementation of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, the Kyoto Protocol and the Paris Agreement. We have been working energetically to formulate modern legislation to ensure reliable control over carbon emissions and to stimulate their reduction. Yesterday I delivered my annual Address to the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation, and one of the top priority tasks I have set in terms of socioeconomic development was to substantially limit cumulative emissions in our country by 2050. I am sure that this task is feasible despite Russia’s size, its geographical, climatic and structural peculiarities. Let me recall that compared to 1990, Russia has reduced its greenhouse gas emissions more than many other countries. These emissions were cut in half – from 3.1 billion to 1.6 billion tonnes of СО 2 equivalent. This was a result of the fundamental restructuring of Russian industry and energy over the past 20 years. As a result, now 45 percent of our energy balance comes from low-emission energy sources, including nuclear power. It is common knowledge that nuclear power plants produce almost zero greenhouse gas emissions throughout their life cycle. We intend to continue increasing the scale of associated gas utilisation. We will also continue implementing our large-scale programme for ecological modernisation and higher energy efficiency in all economic sectors. We will ensure the capture, storage and use of carbon dioxide from all sources and create the infrastructure for producing hydrogen as both a raw material and a source of energy. I would like to mention in this context that Russia’s Sakhalin Region has launched a pilot project to create a carbon pricing and trading system. This project will allow this Russian region to reach carbon neutrality by 2025. Obviously, the situation that provoked the global warming and related problems emerged a long time ago. What do we think about comprehensive solutions to these problems? First. Carbon dioxide has been in the atmosphere for hundreds of years. Therefore, it is not enough to talk just about new amounts of emissions. It is important to absorb the carbon dioxide that has already accumulated in the atmosphere. It is no exaggeration to say that Russia is making an enormous contribution to the absorption of global emissions, both our own and those of others, owing to the absorbing capacity of our ecosystems, which is estimated at 2.5 billion tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent a year. Second, we must take into account absolutely every cause of global warming. For example, methane accounts for 20 percent of anthropogenic emissions. The greenhouse effect of each tonne of methane is 25–28 times greater than a tonne of СО 2. Experts believe that if we could halve methane emissions in the next 30 years, global temperatures would decrease by 0.18 degrees by 2050. The difference between this figure and the target set in the Paris Agreement is about 45 percent. In this context, it would be extremely important to develop broad and effective international cooperation in the calculation and monitoring of all polluting emissions into the atmosphere. We urge all interested countries to take part in joint research, to invest in climate projects that can have a practical effect and to redouble efforts to create low-carbon technologies to mitigate the consequences and adjust to climate change. Third, I have no doubt that climate efforts should, of course, rally the efforts of the entire international community. Russia is willing to propose a number of joint projects and discuss possible incentives for foreign companies that would like to invest in clean technology, including in our country. And lastly, global development should not just be green but also sustainable in the full meaning of the word – and for all countries without exception. And consequently, it should be closely connected with progress in such high-priority areas as efforts against poverty and closing development gaps. In conclusion, I would like to emphasise once again that the Russian Federation is genuinely interested in stepping up international cooperation so that we can continue to search for effective solutions to climate change, as well as other acute global problems. In fact, this should be the goal of the current video summit. Thank you for your attention.
Mr President, friends, ladies and gentlemen, The launch of the Talas Gold Mining Complex at the Jerooy deposit is indeed an important project for Russian-Kyrgyzstani economic cooperation and, in general, for the strengthening of partner and allied relations between our nations. I fully agree on this with Mr Japarov. We have successfully implemented one of the largest joint projects. The top managers of Alliance Group and VTB Bank have told us of the efforts and resources invested in the development of the Jerooy deposit and the construction of the Talas Gold Mining Complex. I would like to point out that we are talking about truly record Russian investments in Kyrgyzstan estimated at some $600 million. The Talas Gold Mining Complex will employ cutting-edge technology and state-of-the-art equipment, including those compliant with all nature conservation regulations and standards. This will allow the production of up to five tonnes of gold per year, efficiently and with no environmental damage. I would like to note that the Jerooy deposit, which will supply ore to the Talas Gold Mining Complex, was, as the President of Kyrgyzstan has just pointed out, explored by Soviet geologists back in 1968. The scientists estimated that the gold reserves in the deposit amount to around 90 tonnes and silver reserves to around 25 tonnes. This means that the facility will have resources for stable work to continue for years. The mining complex is creating more than a thousand jobs offering new employment opportunities to the local population. Small and medium-sized enterprises in Talas Region will be able to secure lucrative deals to supply goods and services required by the complex. Russian investors intend to provide significant financial support for the social development of Talas Region. The company director already said that a designated foundation was established that will receive up to $2 million every year. Almost half of these funds will be spent on socially significant projects in the region while the rest of the money will be used for subsidised lending to businesses. In other words, the new gold mining facility will bring considerable benefits both to Talas Region and the Kyrgyz economy in general. As the President mentioned, the state budget will receive significant revenue. The mining complex has already transferred $100 million to the Kyrgyz budget as the Jerooy deposit license fee. It is estimated that subsequently, the tax revenue received by the Kyrgyz budget will indeed grow, to about $70 million per year. In conclusion, I would like to thank all Russian and Kyrgyzstani co-founders and investors of the Talas Gold Mining Complex and its personnel, including the engineers and workers who built it, for their well-coordinated and effective operation. Of course, I would like to express gratitude to the leadership of Kyrgyzstan and personally to Mr Japarov for their attention to the interests of Russian economic operators and their efforts to create a favourable investment climate in the Kyrgyz Republic. We hope that the Kyrgyz authorities will continue to support the new enterprise. I would like to repeat that the implementation of this important joint project will be a symbol of the successful development of the multifaceted and mutually beneficial Russian-Kyrgyzstani partnership and strong friendship between our nations, which is fully in line the with spirit of the agreements reached during a recent visit by the President of Kyrgyzstan to Moscow. We are grateful to you for making your first foreign visit to our capital. I hope that all the efforts we have been making together to promote our economic cooperation, as well as the funds that have been invested with the aim of allowing Kyrgyzstan to become a full-fledged member of the EAEU economic alliance, and the sum invested was indeed considerable, running into hundreds of millions of dollars, I hope that our joint efforts will continue to facilitate the implementation of major industrial projects that will benefit both sides economically. I would like to wish all the very best to all those who are involved in this process. Thank you.  Thank you. Hope to see you soon.
Mr President, friends, First of all, I would like to congratulate all of you on the start of one more important stage in the implementation of a large-scale joint Russian-Turkish project, the construction of the Akkuyu Nuclear Power Plant in Turkey. In a few minutes, President Erdogan and I will launch the pouring of concrete into the foundation of the NPP’s third unit. In all, the Akkuyu NPP will have four units with reactors with a total capacity of 4,800 MW, which will be able to produce up to 37 billion kilowatt-hours of electricity a year. I clearly remember, as we already mentioned today, how Mr Erdogan and I took part in the ceremony to launch the construction of the first unit in April 2018. I would like to express satisfaction with the combined efforts of the Russian and Turkish professionals – nuclear experts, engineers and workers – which ensured the construction of the nuclear power plant in accordance with the agreed schedule. At the same time, we are dealing successfully with the most complicated design, assembly and technological objectives. Even well-known difficulties linked with the coronavirus pandemic failed to hamper the consistent implementation of the Akkuyu project; we have also noted this today. I would like to point out that top-level onsite sanitary-epidemic safety and healthcare standards are maintained for employees directly involved in the project. Turkey’s first Akkuyu NPP should start operating in 2023 when the 100 th anniversary of the establishment of the Republic of Turkey will be celebrated. The Turkish leadership and Mr Erdogan set this task when this project was launched. We also attach great significance to this; the President of Turkey and we have agreed to continue providing the necessary assistance and support to the Akkuyu project. We are certain that its implementation will make a serious contribution to strengthening the energy security of the Republic of Turkey, and that this will facilitate its subsequent economic growth. The project will provide Turkish consumers with inexpensive and environmentally friendly electricity. A powerful boost will be given to the development in Turkey of an entirely new sector – the nuclear power industry, to strengthening the country’s research and production potential and to the creation of new jobs. By the way, over 8,000 people, mostly Turkish citizens, are currently working at the construction site. Today, Rosatom operates a centre for training the future NPP’s technical personnel at Akkuyu. As has already been mentioned, Russian universities train nuclear engineers for Turkey. Over 100 Turkish students are currently studying in Russia, and they will eventually obtain jobs at the Akkuyu NPP. Over 200 Turkish students will graduate in 2021. So, there will be enough national specialists trained for the Turkish nuclear industry before the nuclear power plant goes on stream. I would like to point out that Rosatom, as a recognised leader in peaceful nuclear development, is applying the most advanced engineering solutions and economically effective and reliable technology during the plant’s construction. At the same time, it also ensures the strictest safety and environmental standards. I would like to note that the Russian side is actively engaging not only Russian but also Turkish professionals and businesses in the plant’s construction and subcontracting. The implementation of a considerable number of contracts necessary for the future plant has been localised in Turkey, which is yet further proof of the commercial advantages of this project for all parties. Friends, In conclusion, I would like to express gratitude to our friend, the President of Turkey, for his initiative to hold a special ceremony for this event. I would also like to thank all those involved in the construction of the Akkuyu Nuclear Power Plant and to once again express confidence that the successful implementation of this truly flagship project will not just advance our energy cooperation to a fundamentally new level but will also facilitate the further development of the multifaceted Russian-Turkish partnership and will help strengthen friendship and mutual understanding between our people. I would like to wish all of you every success. Thank you. President of the Republic of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdogan : Mr President, my dear friend, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to convey my heart-felt greetings to all of you. I would also like to thank the President of the Russian Federation, my dear friend Mr Putin for joining the ceremony for the launch of construction remotely. I would like to thank all of our guests for coming here and personally attending this ceremony. Today we are experiencing well-deserved pride for what we have accomplished. Today we are launching the construction of the third power unit at the Akkuyu Nuclear Power Plant . Now we will quickly move forward with this construction and start laying down the fourth unit. This strategic plan is aimed at diversifying Turkey’s energy supply. Despite the impact of the coronavirus on the entire world, we continue to grow. Last year many countries faced a serious economic decline. Meanwhile, our economy grew by 2.7 percent. We believe this year our economic growth will be even higher. Considering this economic growth, we must ensure stable energy supplies on beneficial terms. This is why we are striving to develop and increase the number of various energy projects. In this context, the efficiency of power engineering, green energy and renewable energy sources are very important. Renewable energy sources generate 63.7 percent of all energy in Turkey today. Thus, in the past few years, we have established 4 billion kilowatt-hours of new generating capacity. An independent power industry is our main objective in making Turkey strong. Probing and seismic studies conducted in the Eastern Mediterranean inspire us with hope. Energy policy is of special importance for us, and our goal is to make electricity generation completely emission-free. We want to add nuclear energy to our electricity generation mix. This NPP will provide us with additional opportunities in this respect. The plant’s construction provides jobs to 16,000 people. Once it is put into operation, it will provide permanent jobs for 4,000 people. Now, 186 of our students, who have received an education for six and a half years, have returned home and will work to develop the nuclear energy industry in Turkey. They will continue working for this benefit. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, We plan to bring the first reactor of the Akkuyu Nuclear Power Plant online in 2023. The plant will eventually have four reactors. We are working day and night on all four reactors. In 2023, when we celebrate the centenary of the Republic of Turkey, it will become a “nuclear energy” country. Thus, 10 percent of all energy generation – 65 billion kWh – will be produced by the nuclear energy industry. To ensure the proper performance of our nuclear plant we must focus on it and take a comprehensive approach. We are doing this and confidently moving forward. Needless to say, we are not compromising on safety in any way. The Akkuyu NPP will have all the necessary safety equipment. Our designs meet IAEA quality and safety standards. As my colleague said, this is one of the symbols of cooperation between Russia and Turkey. We will continue developing new projects together. Both President Putin and I have shown a strong inclination for this cooperation. Our dialogue concerns not only bilateral relations but is also aimed at ensuring security in the entire region. Russia and Turkey are conducting a dialogue on the issues of Karabakh and Syria. We have found opportunities for a common language and we are motivated to develop our dialogue. Recently, there have been difficulties in tourism and economic performance due to the coronavirus, and if it is the will of Allah, we will manage to eliminate the harm this year. We want Russian tourists to travel here and in this context, we are being guided by considerations of safe travels. I would like to thank Mr Putin in the first place and all those who contributed to implementing this project. I would like to thank our companies and departments, their executives and technical and administrative personnel for their contribution to this project. I want all this to be useful for everyone. I would like to greet all of you with love and respect once again. Stay healthy! I am giving you the all-clear, go ahead! Congratulations once again! It’s a deal; we haven’t met for some time. We must do this soon. Congratulations to you again! All the best. Geography Tü
Mr Schwab, dear Klaus, Colleagues, I have been to Davos many times, attending the events organised by Mr Schwab, even back in the 1990s. Klaus just recalled that we met in 1992. Indeed, during my time in St Petersburg, I visited this important forum many times. I would like to thank you for this opportunity today to convey my point of view to the expert community that gathers at this world-renowned platform thanks to the efforts of Mr Schwab. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to greet all the World Economic Forum participants. It is gratifying that this year, despite the pandemic, despite all the restrictions, the forum is still continuing its work. Although it is limited to online participation, the forum is taking place anyway, providing an opportunity for participants to exchange their assessments and forecasts during an open and free discussion, partially compensating for the increasing lack of in-person meetings between leaders of states, representatives of international business and the public in recent months. All this is very important now, when we have so many difficult questions to answer. The current forum is the first one in the beginning of the third decade of the 21 st century and, naturally, the majority of its topics are devoted to the profound changes that are taking place in the world. Indeed, it is difficult to overlook the fundamental changes in the global economy, politics, social life and technology. The coronavirus pandemic, which Klaus just mentioned, which became a serious challenge for humankind, only spurred and accelerated the structural changes, the conditions for which had been created long ago. The pandemic has exacerbated the problems and imbalances that built up in the world before. There is every reason to believe that differences are likely to grow stronger. These trends may appear practically in all areas. Needless to say, there are no direct parallels in history. However, some experts – and I respect their opinion – compare the current situation to the 1930s. One can agree or disagree, but certain analogies are still suggested by many parameters, including the comprehensive, systemic nature of the challenges and potential threats. We are seeing a crisis of the previous models and instruments of economic development. Social stratification is growing stronger both globally and in individual countries. We have spoken about this before as well. But this, in turn, is causing today a sharp polarisation of public views, provoking the growth of populism, right- and left-wing radicalism and other extremes, and the exacerbation of domestic political processes including in the leading countries. All this is inevitably affecting the nature of international relations and is not making them more stable or predictable. International institutions are becoming weaker, regional conflicts are emerging one after another, and the system of global security is deteriorating. Klaus has mentioned the conversation I had yesterday with the US President on extending the New START. This is, without a doubt, a step in the right direction. Nevertheless, the differences are leading to a downward spiral. As you are aware, the inability and unwillingness to find substantive solutions to problems like this in the 20 th century led to the WWII catastrophe. Of course, such a heated global conflict is impossible in principle, I hope. This is what I am pinning my hopes on, because this would be the end of humanity. However, as I have said, the situation could take an unexpected and uncontrollable turn – unless we do something to prevent this. There is a chance that we will face a formidable break-down in global development, which will be fraught with a war of all against all and attempts to deal with contradictions through the appointment of internal and external enemies and the destruction of not only traditional values such as the family, which we hold dear in Russia, but fundamental freedoms such as the right of choice and privacy. I would like to point out the negative demographic consequences of the ongoing social crisis and the crisis of values, which could result in humanity losing entire civilisational and cultural continents. We have a shared responsibility to prevent this scenario, which looks like a grim dystopia, and to ensure instead that our development takes a different trajectory – positive, harmonious and creative. In this context, I would like to speak in more detail about the main challenges which, I believe, the international community is facing. The first one is socioeconomic. Indeed, judging by the statistics, even despite the deep crises in 2008 and 2020, the last 40 years can be referred to as successful or even super successful for the global economy. Starting from 1980, global per capita GDP has doubled in terms of real purchasing power parity. This is definitely a positive indicator. Globalisation and domestic growth have led to strong growth in developing countries and lifted over a billion people out of poverty. So, if we take an income level of $5.50 per person per day then, according to the World Bank, in China, for example, the number of people with lower incomes went from 1.1 billion in 1990 down to less than 300 million in recent years. This is definitely China's success. In Russia, this number went from 64 million people in 1999 to about 5 million now. We believe this is also progress in our country, and in the most important area, by the way. Still, the main question, the answer to which can, in many respects, provide a clue to today’s problems, is what was the nature of this global growth and who benefitted from it most. Of course, as I mentioned earlier, developing countries benefitted a lot from the growing demand for their traditional and even new products. However, this integration into the global economy has resulted in more than just new jobs or greater export earnings. It also had its social costs, including a significant gap in individual incomes. What about the developed economies where average incomes are much higher? It may sound ironic, but stratification in the developed countries is even deeper. According to the World Bank, 3.6 million people subsisted on incomes of under $5.50 per day in the United States in 2000, but in 2016 this number grew to 5.6 million people. Meanwhile, globalisation led to a significant increase in the revenue of large multinational, primarily US and European, companies. By the way, in terms of individual income, the developed economies in Europe show the same trend as the United States. But then again, in terms of corporate profits, who got hold of the revenue? You know there are things of an absolutely fundamental nature such as our common culture. Major European political figures have talked in the recent past about the need to expand relations between Europe and Russia, saying that Russia is part of Europe. Geographically and, most importantly, culturally, we are one civilisation. French leaders have spoken of the need to create a single space from Lisbon to the Urals. I believe, and I mentioned this, why the Urals? To Vladivostok. I personally heard the outstanding European politician, former Chancellor Helmut Kohl, say that if we want European culture to survive and remain a centre of world civilisation in the future, keeping in mind the challenges and trends underlying the world civilisation, then of course, Western Europe and Russia must be together. It is hard to disagree with that. We hold exactly the same point of view. Clearly, today’s situation is not normal. We need to return to a positive agenda. This is in the interests of Russia and, I am confident, the European countries. Clearly, the pandemic has also played a negative role. Our trade with the European Union is down, although the EU is one of our key trade and economic partners. Our agenda includes returning to positive trends and building up trade and economic cooperation. Europe and Russia are absolutely natural partners from the point of view of the economy, research, technology and spatial development for European culture, since Russia, being a country of European culture, is a little larger than the entire EU in terms of territory. Russia’s resources and human potential are enormous. I will not go over everything that is positive in Europe, which can also benefit the Russian Federation.