…on the phone, we have some terrific people: Chairman Abdel al-Burhan and Prime Minister Abdalla Hamdok of Sudan — a beautiful part of the world; and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu — I think you mostly know him. You perhaps heard of him somewhere. We have the very highly sophisticated press. I think they may have heard of him, of Israel. So I want to just congratulate all of you. The State of Israel and the Republic of Sudan have agreed to make peace. This is for many, many years they’ve been at odds, to put it nicely, and to normalize their relations. This will be the third country where we’re doing this. And we have many, many more coming. We have — they’re coming at us hot and heavy. In the coming weeks, they will meet to negotiate cooperation agreements. You saw that happen with UAE and Bahrain recently in agriculture, technology, aviation, migration, and other critical areas. This historic deal comes just a few weeks after the groundbreaking agreement between Israel and the United Arab Emirates. And Israel and the — and Bahrain. That was very historic. That was a great day, a very historic day — Bahrain and United Arab Emirates. Three months ago, no one thought this would be possible. Even Bibi didn’t know if this was going to be possible. Bibi, right? But now multiple Arab countries across co- — continents have made peace with Israel. And again, we have many lined up. They want to come in. They want to get the deal done. They all see it. No blood in the sand. I say, “No blood.” This is one where’s there’s been no blood in the sand. It was common sense. It should have been done this way a long time ago. It’s a very special deal. For much of recent history, the people of Sudan were ruled over by brutal Islamic dictatorships. It was the home of Osama bin Laden — a place of terror, genocide, and many other tragedies. Today, a great people of Sudan are in charge. New democracy is taking root, and the two people I have just mentioned are highly respected leaders — highly, highly respected leaders. The Sudanese transitional government has demonstrated its commitment to combatting terrorism, creating market economy, and developing the democratic institution that it’s becoming. Today’s deal builds on those commitments and marks a pivotal turning point in Sudan’s history. This is, I would say, one of the great days in the history of Sudan. This is an incredible deal for Israel and Sudan. For decades, Sudan has been at a state of war with Israel — they have been in a state of war — and boycotted Israeli goods. There was no relationship whatsoever. Today’s peace agreement will enhance Israel’s security and end Sudan’s long isolation from the world because of what was taking place. It will unlock new opportunities for trade and commerce, education and research, and cooperation and friendship for both peoples. I want to thank the leaders of Sudan. I want to thank you very much for being with us. And of course, Benjamin, for the incredible work you do constantly. We’ve had a tremendous relationship. There’s never been a relationship where Israel and the United States were so close. And I would say, a few years ago, there’s probably never been a time when it was so far apart, so distant — if you want to know the truth. But this is a tremendous show of faith and courage and leadership which has forged this agreement. The United States stands with all of you and all the nations that seek peace and cooperation. And again, we will be signing many nations over the next coming weeks and months, including some very big ones. It’s very exciting, actually. It’s peace in the Middle East without bloodshed. And the Palestinians, by the way, if you ask about the Palestinians, they’re wanting to do something. They have never seen anything like this. They’re wanting to do something. I’m sure that will get done too. So I’d like to congratulate everybody on the phone. And I don’t know if you have interpreters or if you needed the interpreters for that, but if you do, you can go forward, interpreters, if you need them. Well, thank you very much. That was beautifully stated and I appreciate it. Bibi, would you like to say something? Well, even the media is very excited about it. I mean, everybody is excited about it. It’s an incredible thing. And again, as you know, Bibi, because you’re negotiating, talking to people, but they’re falling into line. Everybody is going to be involved in this very shortly. I would say — who knows? I can’t exactly put a date on it, but within a very few number of months, everybody is going to be in this deal. And it’s the way it should have been done a long time ago. We did it the opposite way — exactly the opposite way. And we took a lot of abuse from the people that were unable to make a deal for 40 years. And this has gone very quickly, very nicely, very inexpensively, and with no blood. So we’re very happy about that. Would anybody else like to say something and then I’ll have the press ask? Perhaps they may have a question for you. Yeah, please go ahead, Prime Minister. It’s the Prime Minister.  Wow. Thank you very much. Mike Pompeo, would you say something? Secretary of State. It certainly is. Jared Kushner? It’s very funny when Jared said that — it’s true. They’ve been going on for, you could say, centuries, in some cases, really. I mean, if you think about it, but they’ve been going on for many decades. And it’s just falling into place. It’s all falling. It was the right system, and all falling. And Robert O’Brien? AMBASSADOR O’ Nobody would have believed that. Except you. AMBASSADOR O’ No, think of that: In Afghanistan, we have not had a combat death since February. It’s a long time ago. I mean, that’s something that is very nice. That’s got a beautiful ring to it. Please. AMBASSADOR O’ Thank you, Robert. AMBASSADOR O’ Thank you very much. Steve? It’s a much different place. Brian Hook? Please. Had we not done what we did with Iran, this could never worked. That was a horrible deal. That was a horrible setback. Bibi and others were very much against it at the time, but that’s what the problem was. And it was not well done, not well executed. And that agreement is practically over. Had we let that agreement stay — it’s practically over — and that would have been a pathway to nuclear weapons and we’ll never let Iran have nuclear weapons. Avi, just say a few words, please. So they’ve been working on this — how many years, Bibi? Peace. How many years have they been working, approximately? And, Bibi, how does it feel flying those beautiful airliners right over the top of UAE — you never thought that was going to happen, right? — to save about two hours in flight time? Dangerous. Basically. Yeah. So we have many countries, as you know, getting ready. And we also have — I’m sure you’ll see Saudi Arabia in there very soon. I really believe that will happen too. And very good relations with Saudi Arabia. So you’ll see something very special. And this is already special, but we are going to be signing numerous countries in the not-too-distant future. So that will be great. While you are on the phone, could I ask you how is the dam doing in Ethiopia? The largest dam in many, many years being built. Unfortunately, it stops water from flowing into the — the Nile, which causes Egypt a little bit of a problem. Right? As it should. But Ethiopia built the dam. You know all about it probably, Bibi, but I’ve been dealing with Sudan on that. And I’m just curious, how is that going? Because you’re really the third party involved, with Ethiopia and Egypt, in the dam. Are they working out their deal? Because I had a deal done for them, and then unfortunately, Ethiopia broke the deal, which they should not have done. That was a big mistake. And we’ve stopped payment to them of about — of a lot of aid because they did it. And they will never see that money unless they adhere to the agreement. But they built a dam, which stops water from flowing into the Nile. And you can’t blame Egypt for being a little bit upset. Right? How are they doing with that? Do you know? Yeah, no — well, you — I was — actually talking to Sudan, Bibi. Talking to the Chairman, talking to the Prime Minister. How are you doing? May not want to answer that. Yeah, if you would, because I had a deal done and then they broke the deal, and they can’t do that. They can’t do that. So the deal was done, and it’s a very dangerous situation, because Egypt is not going to be able to live that way. And they’ll end up blowing up the dam. And I said it — and I say it loud and clear, “They’ll blow up that dam.” And they have to do something. So whatever you can do to get them, Ethiopia, to do that, they’re going to have to. Okay? And we’ve cut off all payment and everything else to Ethiopia. It was terrible. We were all set to sign a deal. It was negotiated for five years and longer than that. And they couldn’t make the deal, and I got the deal done. And then they’re getting ready to sign the deal and they broke the deal, which is not good. So whatever you could do, Prime Minister, if you could, that would be great. Okay? You tell them they got to get it done. And I’m telling Egypt the same thing, by the way, you know, because they could have stopped it. They should have stopped it long before it was started. I said, “How do you let it get built? And then you say, ‘They’ve — they have a dam.’” You know. But they had other things on their mind. That was at time when they were having a minor revolution, to put it mildly. That was a bad time for Egypt, so I guess they had other things on their mind. So you’ll work on that, Sudan. And thank you very much. So you have any question for Sudan — 
It is my profound honor to address the United Nations General Assembly. Seventy-five years after the end of World War II and the founding of the United Nations, we are once again engaged in a great global struggle. We have waged a fierce battle against the invisible enemy — the China virus — which has claimed countless lives in 188 countries. In the United States, we launched the most aggressive mobilization since the Second World War. We rapidly produced a record supply of ventilators, creating a surplus that allowed us to share them with friends and partners all around the globe. We pioneered life-saving treatments, reducing our fatality rate 85 percent since April. Thanks to our efforts, three vaccines are in the final stage of clinical trials. We are mass-producing them in advance so they can be delivered immediately upon arrival. We will distribute a vaccine, we will defeat the virus, we will end the pandemic, and we will enter a new era of unprecedented prosperity, cooperation, and peace. As we pursue this bright future, we must hold accountable the nation which unleashed this plague onto the world: China. In the earliest days of the virus, China locked down travel domestically while allowing flights to leave China and infect the world. China condemned my travel ban on their country, even as they cancelled domestic flights and locked citizens in their homes. The Chinese government and the World Health Organization — which is virtually controlled by China — falsely declared that there was no evidence of human-to-human transmission. Later, they falsely said people without symptoms would not spread the disease. The United Nations must hold China accountable for their actions. In addition, every year, China dumps millions and millions of tons of plastic and trash into the oceans, overfishes other countries’ waters, destroys vast swaths of coral reef, and emits more toxic mercury into the atmosphere than any country anywhere in the world. China’s carbon emissions are nearly twice what the U.S. has, and it’s rising fast. By contrast, after I withdrew from the one-sided Paris Climate Accord, last year America reduced its carbon emissions by more than any country in the agreement. Those who attack America’s exceptional environmental record while ignoring China’s rampant pollution are not interested in the environment. They only want to punish America, and I will not stand for it. If the United Nations is to be an effective organization, it must focus on the real problems of the world. This includes terrorism, the oppression of women, forced labor, drug trafficking, human and sex trafficking, religious persecution, and the ethnic cleansing of religious minorities. America will always be a leader in human rights. My administration is advancing religious liberty, opportunity for women, the decriminalization of homosexuality, combatting human trafficking, and protecting unborn children. We also know that American prosperity is the bedrock of freedom and security all over the world. In three short years, we built the greatest economy in history, and we are quickly doing it again. Our military has increased substantially in size. We spent $2.5 trillion over the last four years on our military. We have the most powerful military anywhere in the world, and it’s not even close. We stood up to decades of China’s trade abuses. We revitalized the NATO Alliance, where other countries are now paying a much more fair share. We forged historic partnerships with Mexico, Guatemala, Honduras, and El Salvador to stop human smuggling. We are standing with the people of Cuba, Nicaragua, and Venezuela in their righteous struggle for freedom. We withdrew from the terrible Iran Nuclear Deal and imposed crippling sanctions on the world’s leading state sponsor of terror. We obliterated the ISIS caliphate 100 percent; killed its founder and leader, al-Baghdadi; and eliminated the world’s top terrorist, Qasem Soleimani. This month, we achieved a peace deal between Serbia and Kosovo. We reached a landmark breakthrough with two peace deals in the Middle East, after decades of no progress. Israel, the United Arab Emirates, and Bahrain all signed a historic peace agreement in the White House, with many other Middle Eastern countries to come. They are coming fast, and they know it’s great for them and it’s great for the world. These groundbreaking peace deals are the dawn of the new Middle East. By taking a different approach, we have achieved different outcomes — far superior outcomes. We took an approach, and the approach worked. We intend to deliver more peace agreements shortly, and I have never been more optimistic for the future of the region. There is no blood in the sand. Those days are, hopefully, over. As we speak, the United States is also working to end the war in Afghanistan, and we are bringing our troops home. America is fulfilling our destiny as peacemaker, but it is peace through strength. We are stronger now than ever before. Our weapons are at an advanced level like we’ve never had before — like, frankly, we’ve never even thought of having before. And I only pray to God that we never have to use them. For decades, the same tired voices proposed the same failed solutions, pursuing global ambitions at the expense of their own people. But only when you take care of your own citizens will you find a true basis for cooperation. As President, I have rejected the failed approaches of the past, and I am proudly putting America first, just as you should be putting your countries first. That’s okay — that’s what you should be doing. I am supremely confident that next year, when we gather in person, we will be in the midst of one of the greatest years in our history — and frankly, hopefully, in the history of the world. Thank you. God bless you all. God bless America. And God bless the United Nations. END
Okay, thank you very much for being here as we commemorate the return of historic Native American artifacts and sacred remains to American soil. That’s a big thing. They’ve been working on this for a long time. Long, long time. Many, many years. With us today is our Finnish Ambassador, who we just had the privilege of meeting. The Finnish Ambassador has been a friend of this country, and now he’s officially a friend. So, congratulations. I’d like to congratulate you, as well as you, as Ambassador to Finland, Bob Pence. Thank you very much. And Bob, thank you very much. Appreciate it. We’re also joined by Department of Interior Secretary David Bernhardt, Assistant Secretary of Indian Affairs Tara Sweeney, and officials of Finland’s National Museum and the National Museum of the American Indian. I also want to thank Colorado Senator, Cory Gardner. He was so instrumental on this. He’s been a great senator for his support for Native American communities. Worked very hard. Nearly 130 years ago, treasured Native American artifacts were excavated from the great state of Colorado by European archeologists. For the past seven decades, several administrations have tried — and they have tried very hard; they were unable to do it — to negotiate the return of these precious artifacts. Last October, I worked with the President of Finland, who agreed to bring these priceless possessions back to the 26 Indian tribes of the Mesa Verde region in American Southwest — in the American Southwest. And they’ve been trying to get it for a long time, so we got it done. Right? That’s a big thing. Thank you, David. Five days ago, the remains were repatriated to their ancestral homeland and given a proper burial. And this was with big ceremony. My administration also brought back the Acoma Pueblo Shield to New Mexico last November, and that was very important to the great people of New Mexico. I’m committed to working with tribal leaders to ensure their cherished heritage is honored, respected, and preserved, as it should be. As my administration did last year, it increased Native American access to eagle feathers. My administration is fighting for Native American communities. We made the largest investment in Indian Country in the history of our country. We have $8 billion in CARES Act funds to protect Native American health. Eight billions dollars — that’s the largest amount of money ever spent on the Indian reservations. I created task forces on missing and murdered American Indians and protecting Native American children. And we’re working on that very hard. Law enforcement is really working on it. We’ve made tremendous progress. It’s a — it’s a terrible situation, but we’ve made tremendous progress on that, and we’re being thanked by a lot of people. It’s a terrible situation, but we’ll continue to work hard on the — on that problem and many other problems with Indian Country and the problems that they’ve got. We’re really — I think we’re really doing a job. David, you can be very proud of the job you’re doing. Right? In particular, Tara. Thank you. Thank you very much. Big progress being made? What would you like to say while you have the media, Tara? Would you like to say something before we introduce some of the other people? It’s been so devastating to Indian Country. I mean, it’s been so horrible what’s gone on with the kidnappings, the killings, the whole thing. It’s just been incredible. Probably mostly led by drugs, right? Mostly led by drugs, largely. But we appreciate it. You’ve done a great job, Tara. Thank you very much. David, great job. Would you like to say something, David? Well, I want to thank the President of Finland. He’s a friend of mine. He’s been great. Everything you’ve ever needed, we’ve worked on very closely and gotten it done. And so I just want to thank the President of Finland for making this possible. Mr. Ambassador, would like to say something? Oh, that’s very nice. Thank you. So it’s human remains also, in addition to — That’s fantastic. That’s really great. Well, thank you to the airlines very much. I think maybe before I go to this side, I’ll just say to the new ambassador who has only been here for about 35 minutes because he just — — I just accepted his commission 35 minutes ago. You worked very fast to pull off — — in 35 minutes. You are something. Please. Yes. Absolutely. And it’s a great honor. Thank you, and congratulations. Congratulations to you both. I’d like to hear from the tribes, please, if I could. That’s something. Thank you very much. Please. It’s a great honor. You’ve done a great job. Thank you very much. Would you like to say something? Wow. That’s a big statement. You’ve done some very important things. That’s a big statement. How long have they been working on this from the beginning, from its original start? Seventy? Yeah, that’s great. So from the time we started — and it’s been 70 years in the making. Seven-oh. Well, thank you. It’s such an honor. Yeah, I heard the ceremony was incredible, actually. It was very — I heard it was very emotional, actually, for people. Well, it’s an honor to have done this, and these are great people that have worked on it for a long time. So I’m glad we got it done. It took 70 years, but we got it done. We get things done. That’s one thing we do: We get them done. We have a big list of accomplishments, but this is a very important one. And to Indian Country, this is about as big as — this is their number-one request. So thank you all very much. Congratulations, and thank you very much. I’ll be seeing you later. Thank you. END 12:32 P.M. EDT
Thank you very much. Just a few moments ago, I hosted a historic call between Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel and King Hamad Al Khalifa of Bahrain. Both leaders expressed their condolences as well to the American people on this very, very tragic, horrible event that took place on September 11th. And they very much meant it. I want to thank them for that. There’s no more powerful response to the hatred that spawned 9/11 than the agreement that we’re about to tell you. You will hear something today that’s, I think, very, very important for not only the Middle East but for the world. In the spirit of peace and cooperation, both leaders also agreed that Bahrain will fully normalize its diplomatic relations with Israel. They will exchange embassies and ambassadors, begin direct flights between their countries, and launch cooperation initiatives across a broad range of sectors, including health, business, technology, education, security, and agriculture. This is a truly historic day. There have been two peace agreements with Israel in the last 72 years. This is now the second peace agreement that we have announced in the last month, and I am very hopeful that there will be more to follow. I can tell you there’s tremendous enthusiasm on behalf of other countries to also join. And we think, ultimately, you’ll have most countries join, and you’re going to have the Palestinians in a very good position. They want to come in — they’re going to want to come in because all of their friends are in. But we have tremendous enthusiasm for coming into the deal. I want to thank the group of very talented people behind me, and you’re going to be hearing from them in a second. But it’s just a very historic day, a very important day, and so interesting that it’s on 9/11. It’s such a great time. We didn’t know this was going to happen in terms of the timing, but it did happen, and we’re very honored by it. When I took office, the Middle East was in a state of absolute chaos. I’ve restored trust with our regional partners, and together we’ve eliminated the ISIS caliphate 100 percent; isolated the radicals who pervert Islam and sow instability. Today, nations across the region and throughout the world are joining together, united in their determination to build a better future, free from the evils which perpetuate terror. And I think you see that. I think you see that happening very, very strongly. I also spoke with King Salman of Saudi Arabia, and we talked about this, and he is — he’s a great gentleman. And what they’ve done in terms of fighting terror is a much different ballgame than it was before we attained this office. The fact is that Saudi Arabia was doing things that they’re not doing anymore, and so are other countries and neighbors. They are doing things that they just would never have done. Their levels and their — all of the things — all of the many, many elements of fighting and hate, they seem to be evaporating. And we’ll find out very soon. But they seem to be evaporating. So things are happening in the Middle East that nobody thought was even possible to think about, and that’s what’s going on right now. Bahrain has agreed to join Israel and the United Arab Emirates for — and, by the way, I want to thank Mohammed, who’s a great leader, a truly great leader — at the White House on Tuesday. So they’ll be here on Tuesday for the signing of the Abraham Accords. The significance of the signing will be elevated from an already historic breakthrough to one representing a previously unthinkable regional transformation. And that’s exactly what it is. It’s unthinkable that this could happen, and so fast. And, as you know, when we did the original signing with — and which will actually take place in terms of official on Tuesday — United Arab Emirates, people thought that was amazing. And now they’re hearing this, and they’re also hearing from other countries because they understand that other countries want to very much come in. On this occasion, I want to thank the leaders of Israel and Bahrain for their vision and courage to forge this historic agreement. Their leadership is proving that the future can be filled with hope and does not need to be predetermined by conflicts of the past. You know all about the conflicts of the past; they’re very legendary. There was a lot of problems going on, but we’ve been able to work things out to a level that nobody thought possible. This is really something very special — very, very special. As more countries normalize relations with Israel — which will happen quite quickly, we believe — the region will become more and more stable, secure, and prosperous. In the meantime, we’re pulling most of our soldiers out. So we’re doing it the opposite way. They were doing it with nothing but fighting and blood all over the place. The sand was loaded up with blood. And now you’re going to see that a lot of that sand is going to be loaded up with peace. The United States will continue to stand with the people of the region and work with them, and build a brighter and much more hopeful future. So we’re very proud of this. And as time goes by, I think you’ll see more and more why. I think most of you realize how important it is. Even the New York Times, who was very generous in their praise of the original deal, and they never thought — I think nobody thought this was going to happen so quickly after the first. But they’ll both be here on Tuesday. They’re going to be signing. Benjamin Netanyahu will be here. The Prime Minister will be here — Israel. And we look forward to that. Just on this deal, because of the importance of the deal, we’ll take some questions. But first, I’d like to ask Jared to say a few words and Mike Pence to say a few words and some of the folks. David, I’d like you to say something about it because it’s so historic. And these people have worked so hard and so long on it. This is really the culmination of a long period of time — let’s put it that way. I don’t want to say how long, but it’s been — it’s a long period of time. It’s a great thing. Jared, please. Thank you, Jared. Great job. Great job. Thank you very much, Jared. Mike, please. Thank you. Thank you very much, Mike. Great. Our wonderful Ambassador to Israel, David Friedman, who has been really something. He’s been — I put him there. I knew him for a long time. He was one of the most successful lawyers in the country, by far. And at least, based on his paycheck, I can tell you that. And he is a great lawyer. He’s a great talent and a great dealmaker. And I put him there for a reason. I put him there to get it done, as in, just don’t be a regular ambassador, like so many are. Just get it done; see if you can bring peace to the Middle East. David, please. Thank you, David. Great job. Thank you. Avi, please. He looks young, but he’s not as young. I will tell you, he’s very smart. Go ahead. Thank you, Avi. Great. Well said. Thank you very much. Would you have anything to say? Well, they had a lot of bad thinking, a lot of bad concepts, a lot of things that I never thought were going to work. These were the ones that we were relying on to make the deals, and they wasted 35 years; they wasted many, many years. And they’re the ones that have been critical of us, and look what’s happening: Now they’re, all of a sudden, saying, “I think they made a mistake.” They’re all saying that about themselves. So I just want to thank this group in particular for staying here and helping us out and doing things that nobody thought could’ve happened. And under the old concepts of national defense or whatever category you want to put it under, it — that wasn’t working, and it was never going to work. And we changed things around very drastically, and then we started to negotiate. And the good news — and I look at David because you know it, you see it, you hear it — the good news is we have many other countries now in the Middle East that want to be in this. And that means peace — because they’re tired of fighting. You know, they can fight and they’re all great fighters, and they’re warriors, but even great warriors get tired of fighting, and they’re tired of fighting. And I can see things positively happening with Iran, ultimately. And I think that can all work out very well, and I think that so many great things are going to happen. And then we can also discuss the Palestinians. I think the Palestinians are going to end up doing something that’s going to be very smart for them. And all their friends are coming into this, and they want to come into it — they want to come into it very badly. And I can see a lot of good things happening with respect to the Palestinians, which would be really wonderful. Whether you are on their side or not on their side, people want to see it all brought to an end, and brought to an end quickly. So that’s going to be very important. But this is a very historic day. Would anybody else like to say anything? Please, go. Please. And you’ve been doing this for a long time. You never saw anything like this, right? A little — we take a little bit of a different approach. Anybody? Please. Come up, my friend. There is a theme. That’s good. Thank you very much. And this is a very, very big day. Very, very big day. Would you like to say something? Well, it’s an honor to have worked with all of you. You’re really talented people — incredible. And you were willing to be flexible. The word “flexible” is a very important word because we weren’t going by the old standards and norms; we were going by standards that can get things done. But not only get them done, get them done in a much better way. And this is just the beginning. A lot of things are happening, and they’re happening very quickly. People want to be involved, and they want to be involved. For the first time, I think — some of you have told me, the first time ever, that you’ve ever seen anything like this, where they’re rushing into an agreement. They want to be involved. They’re tired of fighting, as I said. They’re tired of fighting. No matter how they are, no matter how great a warrior they are — and you have some great warriors. I know most of them. But it’s time. Thank you all very much. Thank you. END 1:22 P.M. EDT
Well, thank you very much. This is very important. This is a big event. And I want to just congratulate all of the people standing behind me because they have done an incredible job. This is something that hasn’t been done in more than 25 years. Just a few moments ago, I hosted a very special call with two friends — Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel and Crown Prince Mohammed bin Zayed of the United Arab Emirates — where they agreed to finalize a historical peace agreement. Everybody said this would be impossible. And, as you know, Mohammed is one of the great leaders of the Middle East. After 49 years, Israel and the United Arab Emirates will fully normalize their diplomatic relations. They will exchange embassies and ambassadors, and begin cooperation across the board and on a broad range of areas, including tourism, education, healthcare, trade, and security. This is a truly historic moment. Not since the Israel-Jordan peace treaty was signed more than 25 years ago has so much progress been made towards peace in the Middle East. By uniting two of America’s closest and most capable partners in the region — something which said could not be done — this deal is a significant step towards building a more peaceful, secure, and prosperous Middle East. Now that the ice has been broken, I expect more Arab and Muslim countries will follow the United Arab Emirates’ lead. And I want to just thank them for being — it’s not surprising, knowing Mohammed so well. It’s not surprising. They are in that lead position. And normalize relations with Israel. We are already discussing this with other nations — with very powerful, very good nations and people that want to see peace in the Middle East. So you will probably see others of these, but this is the first one in more than 25 years. This deal will allow much greater access to Muslims from throughout the world to visit the many historic sites in Israel — which the Muslims want to see very badly and have wanted to see for many, many decades — and to peacefully pray at the Al-Aqsa Mosque, which is a very special place for them. My first trip as President was to Saudi Arabia in May of 2017. In my speech to the assembled leaders of 54 Muslim countries — every single one was by their leader, their number-one leader. It was an amazing — really, an incredible event. A very important event. I made clear that the problems of the Middle East can only be solved when people of all faiths come together to fight Islamic extremism and pursue economic opportunity for people of all faiths. And when you look at what’s happening, you’re seeing a lot of progress is being made that nobody thought could possibly be made. And things are happening that I can’t talk about, but they’re extremely positive. I want to thank the leaders of Israel and the UAE for their courage and for their leadership to forge this tremendous agreement. It will be known as the “Abraham Accord.” And I’d like to ask our ambassador, David Friedman, to please explain why we’re doing and calling it the “Abraham Accord.” David. It’s a great — great thing. I wanted it to be called the “Donald J. Trump Accord.” But I didn’t think the press would understand that. I didn’t do that. Avi, say a few words, please. Well, you’ve done a great job. And Jared has done a fantastic job. People don’t really understand the things that he’s able to do. He’s done a fantastic job on this. And you and your team — nobody else could have done it. I don’t think anybody else could have done it. Jared, say a few words, please. Thank you very much. Thank you, Jared. What a great job. And what Jared said is so, though — we don’t have to be there anymore. We don’t need oil. We don’t need anything there except friendship. We have some great friends. These are two countries that have been great friends, and we’ve been great friends to them. But we no longer have to be there. It started off when we had to be there, but as of a few years ago, we don’t have to be there. We don’t have to be patrolling the straits. We’re doing things that other countries wouldn’t do. But we put ourself, over the last few years, in a position where we no longer have to be in areas that, at one point, were vital. And that’s a big statement. But we are there for our friends, and we always will be there for our friends. Robert, would you say a few words please? MR. O’ We do have a lot more to come in the Middle East. A lot of very positive things are happening, and you’ll be seeing that taking place. But where we can get a leader like UAE to head the band and get along with Israel, that’s a big — that’s a very big step. Would you please say a few words? You have done such a fantastic job. Thank you. Great job you’ve done. Would you like to say something? Thank you very much. I appreciate it. Would anybody like to say a few words? Anybody here? Because you were saying plenty of words during that negotiation. So they got very quiet in front of the media. That happens — that happens on occasion. Yes, Steve. So, which is easier: dealing with the Democrats or dealing with the Middle East? I tell you, I think — I think the Middle East is more reasonable, actually. I’d like you two guys to say a couple of words. You’ve been so instrumental. Please. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you all very much. This is very exciting. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. Do you have any questions? Do you have any questions on this accord?
Thank you, everybody. Thank you very much. Please. Please. It’s an honor to be with you. I have a whole big, beautiful speech to give, but I just gave two of them, and I thought we’d do, maybe, a little question and answer. You’ve heard it before and — so we could do that. I just want to say we’ve had a tremendous time in India. Prime Minister Modi is a fantastic man doing a fantastic job. He’s a real friend of mine. And, you know, you always say that in a guarded way. He’s a friend, but he loves India. And I’m a friend, but I love the USA. But he’s done an incredible job. And we’re working together, I would say, better than our countries have ever worked before. I know many of the people in the room by name and reputation. Incredible job that you’ve done. Incredible job that you’ve done. Really inspirational for not only your country, but really inspirational for anybody looking to be a successful businessperson. And there are plenty of them around. The job that you have all done is incredible. And we know many of you have invested in the United States, and you have to say, “Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr. President. You’ve made us even richer.” But the fact is, other than yesterday — which was something pretty bad, with respect to the virus, and we’ll see what happens — I see the futures are up today, up fairly substantially. But that’s a very serious thing, but we think we’re in very good shape in the United States. We’ve essentially closed the border to areas where we had to close them. And we had very few. We took in 32 people over the last two days because they were sick and they’re Americans, and they’re great people. You know, what are you going to do? They’re in quarantine. But we had, essentially, 12 people. Many of them are getting better now. Soon, they’ll all be better, we hope. And we’re watching very carefully. So we’ve had a very, very good stretch of — let’s just say we’re fortunate so far. And we think it’s going to remain that way. China is working very, very hard. I have spoken to President Xi, and they’re working very hard. And if you know anything about him, I think he’ll be in pretty good shape. They’re — they’ve had a rough patch, and I think right now they have it — it looks like they’re getting it under control more and more. They’re getting it more and more under control. So I think that’s a problem that’s going to go away. But we lost almost 1,000 points yesterday on the market, and that’s something. You know, things like that happen where — and you have it in your business all the time — it had nothing to do with you; it’s an outside source that nobody would have ever predicted. If you go back six months or three months ago, nobody would have ever predicted. But let’s see, I think it’s going to be under control. And I think I can speak for our country, for — our country is under control. But again, we do business with a lot of other countries. We take care — we work with other countries. We want other countries to be happy, healthy, and well. They’ve got to be happy, healthy, and well. It’s very simple. And so let’s see how it all works out, but I think it’s going to work out fine. I hope so. We’re working very hard. We’re spending a tremendous amount of money also on — we just asked for two and a half-billion dollars on getting everything ready just in case something should happen, and also helping other nations that really aren’t equipped to do it. So with that, it’s an honor to be with you. And if you’d like to ask some questions and find out how much you should invest in the United States of America, I’ll tell you exactly where to invest and how to invest. We just did a lot of business with India, where they’re buying $3 billion worth of helicopters — great helicopter. We have helicopters like — we make the best military equipment in the world, by far. And, you know, the Prime Minister actually said, “If you were President 30 years ago, we’d have all your equipment.” But they started buying many years ago from another nation and others. And now they’re starting to buy from us. So that’s an honor. But we’re up to a pretty high number. We’ll be up very quickly to a pretty high number. And we do make, by far, the best. And they want to have the best, so that’s what we do. So thank you all very much. If the press wants to stay for a couple of questions — you know, we’re going to be having a news conference at 5 o’clock, so you can go to that, or you could stay and hear some of these questions from — truly some of the greatest business leaders anywhere in the world. Now, if you’d like to do — I could do this, Steve: I could read the book for you and we could have nice, beautiful, little speech. It will take five minutes and you’ll be — you’ll fall asleep. And they’ll be — well, they might find it interesting. I don’t know about them, but you guys have heard it before. But please, if you have any questions, please. Anybody? Okay, let’s go home. Boy, we must have — we must have done a very good job if you don’t have — do you want to say something about the energy business? Go ahead. Please. And how are we doing? It sounds nice. It sounds like a Trump rally, actually. We’re actually saying hello to the embassy people as soon as we finish. It’s going up. It’s going up very, very rapidly. Thank you very much, Dan. Really, a great job. Where is Robert? Yes, please. Okay. Good. Would anybody like to say? Go ahead. Please. Yep. Good. Great job. Yeah. So which to you is more important: the tax cuts — we did massive tax cuts — — or the regulation cuts? Because I’ve had a lot of people in your positions running the biggest companies in the world, saying the tax cuts are very important but the regulation cuts may have been more important. Right. Oh, that’s fantastic. Thank you. That’s great. I heard that you were doing that, and I really appreciate it and Ivanka appreciates it. You know, she started it off — she wanted to get 500,000 people jobs. And if you know her, within about two weeks she had that one done. And I think you’re up to over 15 million people being trained by great companies. Some great companies. Walmart was very much instrumental and some of the companies in this room. Yeah. They’ve done a great — So it’s up to 15. And I don’t think government can teach jobs like that. In other words, you teach something and it’s complex stuff. Government is not equipped to do that. We can put all of the money we want into government to do it, and they’re just not equipped to do it. So thank you very much. Thanks fantastic. Great story. Thank you. Yes, sir. Right. That’s right. Very good. You’ve done a great job. So when are the bids due? When are they due? How many vans is it that you’d be making? Wow. That’s a big business, isn’t it? Right. That’s right. Good. Well, good luck. That’s great. That’s good luck. Yes, sir. Please. Right. Healthcare is very important to the Republican Party, I will tell you. And we haven’t been talking about it. We’ve been doing — we got rid of the individual mandate, which was a disaster in Obamacare, which really ended Obamacare. We’re now taking the shell of Obamacare and really running it well. I had a choice: I could run it well or I could run it poorly. Then everybody would be upset and they’d blame President Obama. We decided to run it well, but would like to terminate it and put in great healthcare. We can do that. When you look at single-payer, when you look at what Bernie Sanders and others want to do for the Democrats, it will never work because they’re never going to be able to do it. It’s not going to work, number one. And number two, it’s not going to be good even if it did work. And it’s totally unaffordable, which for you would be a big problem. And I happen to think — I’ve been pretty good at markets. The fact that they are even looking like they’re in the hunt, I think drives our stock market down. When we win reelection — and I think we will — when we win, I think the market is going to go up like — it’s going to be like a rocket ship. Like last time, but even more so. I think the fact that the Democrats are so radical, so out of control, they honestly don’t know what they’re doing. You see what’s happening. They want to tell you about healthcare and yet they can’t count their votes. In fact, now they’re even saying that — if you look at Nevada, that’s all messed up with the vote count, and some of them are questioning the votes, but certainly Iowa was — I’ve never seen anything like it and I’ve been watching politics for a long time. Been involved in it now for a while. And I’ve never seen anything like it. So — but I think the fact that there — you know, there’s an election coming up. I think, you know, a lot of people think we’re going to win the election. I feel we’re going to win the election because what we’ve done for jobs and for the military, for the vets, what we’ve done for healthcare, what we’ve done for healthcare is incredible, including giving options to Obamacare at a far less cost. A cost that’s much less. But if you look at all of the things that we’ve done — rebuilding our military, the biggest tax cuts in history, regulation cuts — that brought all of you people; that’s why you’re in the United States. And then you’re very happy and you’re going in with more. But I think until the election is over, people are — and it’s not just Bernie Sanders. It’s others, too. I think if people thought that there was a real chance of them getting it, it really is going to keep the market down. Now, the market has been up 70, 80, 90 percent depending on your definition of — you can look at about 16 different definitions. But the country has been incredible. It had one bad day; that was yesterday. Futures are up today a little bit. But if you look at what we’ve done in terms of the percentage, even taking 1,000 points off, the numbers are incredible. If the other side had gotten in, I think it would’ve been 50 or 60 points down from where it was, because the big thing again — these regulation cuts — they were going put more regulations on. You couldn’t — you were being strangled. Whether it was Keystone Pipeline, Dakota Access Pipeline, 48,000 jobs between the two of them. So many other things. I mean, nothing was getting done. Nothing was going to be built. It would take you 20 years to get a highway approved. A small highway. It’d take you 20 years to get a roadway approved. And it was out of control. We have that way down. That number is way, way down. And they may not get approved, because if it doesn’t work from a safety standpoint or an environmental standpoint, we don’t want to get it approved either. We’re not going to let them have it approved. But it’s going to end up taking two years, and we’re trying to get it down to less than that. And if it doesn’t work, at least you’re going to find — and how about working on something for 21 years, and you find out that it just got rejected? So, half of your working life — of course, nowadays with people retiring so early, it’s more than half, right? But half of your working life, you’re trying to get an approval. And then after 20 or 21 years, they reject you. We reject — three to two. That happens. It happens. So we’ve done a real job. But I think that, frankly, until the election is over, our market — it’s phenomenal, but our market will jump thousands and thousands of points, if I win. If I don’t win, you’re going to see a crash like you’ve never seen before. I really mean it, too. Okay. Anybody else? Yes, sir. Please. Great. I actually follow you guys, you know — what you’re investing. Yeah. Right. That’s right. That was one of the things I said. Right? I put a little note, in handwriting: You have to make the pipe in the USA. Right? On the bottom. They said, “Sir, this will take two weeks to get.” I said, “No, it doesn’t.” You have to. Now, we had a little problem because they already bought the pipe, right? And that was a little bit, you know, unfair to them, I thought. So we had to sort of let them do what they had to do. But they had bought much of the pipe. And Dakota Access pipeline was already built, except for the one river area that I freed up for them. So it was great. Well, that’s good. So, is that what you do? Thank you very much. That’s very nice to say. I appreciate. Thank you for the investment. Yes, sir. Please. Right. I know that. Yeah. Well, we are. Now, some of the regulations have to go through what they call a “statutory process,” where you started to cut — we have the Secretary of Commerce here, and Wilbur knows exactly what this is all about. You have a statutory process. So we’re going to cut regulations, but we have to give a 90-day notice. Then we have to give 120 days. Then we have to give 30 days. And we’re in that process now, with respect to a lot. No, we’re going to cut a lot more regulations. No — no — and we’re going to also have regulations because I think you need regulation for safety and for environmental. But no President has ever cut anywhere close to what we’ve done. And I’ve done it in three years, and some of them have been for eight. In one case, it’s more than eight. But no President has come close. But we are in statutory environments where we have to go — we have one where we have to wait six months before we do phase two, which is — and there’s four or five phases, but they’re all in a pipeline to get cut. And there’s a certain period in about seven or eight months from now where a lot of them are going to be gone. But we go through the process. But you’ve seen a big difference. Yeah. Good. Thank you very much. Yeah. It’ll only get better, too. Yes, sir. Please. Good. Yeah. Big one. Yeah. Seven billion. Big one. Right, sure. Right, exactly. Right. You’re doing 4G. Are you going to do 5G too? Huawei. Well, that’s good. Good. Put a bid in. They followed us. Right. Right. They’re getting approved a lot quicker. Well, it will be as long as I’m here. But if the wrong person gets elected, that won’t happen at all. And everything will come to a halt, and your unemployment rate will go up to eight or nine or ten. And a lot of bad things will happen. And that has — you know, it is holding back. There’s no question about it. I mean, I think we’re favored to win. Somebody said 65 percent. But 65 percent means there’s 35 percent of something that people don’t want. And it would be devastating because the economy has never been as good as it is right now. It’s being held back by the fact that we have an election coming up. And I don’t think there’s anybody, frankly, on this side — on the other side that’s going to be very inspirational. It certainly doesn’t look like it. So we’ll see what happens. Thank you. Yeah. Great job you’ve done. Yeah. Fantastic. Yes, sir. Please. How much? Seventy what? Good. It’s nice when you can say that’s a small company. Right? It’s a great state. Those people are incredible. They’ll get that done. So you’re dealing with the governor — the governor? He’s a great governor, actually. Good. He’ll get it done. Good. Thank you very much. Thank you. Yes, sir. Please. Mostly aluminum? Mostly aluminum? How is that going? How’s it all going? We helped you a lot — right? — with the tariffs. Good. You got it very quickly. If I weren’t elected, the aluminum business in the United States would be absolutely dead and the steel business would be dead too, frankly. What we did. You know, they were dumping steel all over the place and bad things were happening. And it wasn’t good dumping either. It was real — it was sand steel; it was garbage. And we got that straightened out. So, good. But the aluminum business has made a big comeback. That’s good. That’s good. So your total investment was 12, did you say? How much? $12 billion? That’s a big investment. That’s a big investment. That’s good. That’s good. It’s big. And it means jobs. And we just signed the deal with China, and they’re going to be spending $250 billion a year now on our country. Fifty billion will go — forty to fifty will go to the farmers for the purchase of farm product. But China has been — you know, great. It’s going to be a great deal. We’re very happy with it. They’re going to take care of their other problem, I hope, quickly. But we’re going to be — it’s going to be an amazing deal. Okay? Thank you. Great job. Yes, sir. Good. Well, thank you. Great job. I know your company. Great job. And, you know, we now also have it so money can come in. When your money is offshore, you can bring it in. Before, it was impossible, virtually — both bureaucratically and the rate was so high that nobody would pay it. So nothing came in. Now we have billions and billions of dollars. Apple is bringing in $350 billion and they’re building plants. I just left one — they just opened one in Texas; I just left it. And they’re building another one, and a lot of things are happening. Great things. Thank you very much. Please. Thank you. Yes. Great. Great job. I know what you’ve done. Great job. Thank you. So I want to thank you. Go ahead. Let’s go. I was just going to say, “Get out of here,” but everyone wants a question now, huh? There’s a young — young, brilliant businessman. Go ahead. Good. Sure. That’s fantastic. Is that where you invest? Those areas? That’s where you put — So, how many hotels do you have right now, then? That’s fantastic. That’s — That is really great. I actually know of your company. Not just a small company, by the way. Good job. Thank you very much. Please. Yes, okay. Well, we’ll do one and one, okay? Go ahead. This one is a big one, right? This is a big — this is a big guy. This is a big player. Go ahead. I know him very well. I’ve seen him on enough covers. I should know him, huh? Go ahead. How’s it going? Yeah. As you know, three years ago, it was just the opposite. It was one of the worst countries to do business in. You couldn’t get approvals. You couldn’t get anything done. You were sued on environmental — you know, for environmental reasons, not because of the environment, just because it was a way of stopping a project that would produce jobs. And I’m a big believer in the environment and I want to take care of the environment, but they were just using the laws. And we don’t let that happen anymore. But if it’s something that is wrong — you know better than anybody — we stop them from doing it. But you’ve done an incredible job. And the steel industry was dead in our country. And, you know, we need — there are certain industries you can do without, to be honest with you. There are certain industry — we can name a lot of them. But, steel you need, from a military — and aluminum you need. You got to have the aluminum. But steel you need probably more than anything else. You have to have it. And the job you’ve done is incredible. Biggest in the world by far. The job you’ve done is incredible. Good. That’s a great place. Good. Well, you let me know. I’ll be there for the groundbreaking. No, that’s a great — I know you’re investing. I know you’re looking at Alabama, right? I know. I had heard that. That’s great for a very — that’s a big plant and that’s going to be this super-efficient, super-modern. That’s going to be a showcase, I hear. Right. No, but people know about — people know about that. That’s a great — that’s a great thing for Alabama and it’s an incredible place to invest. Well, you know, we are doing things. One of the things we’re doing, we’re going to be announcing another tax cut in not so long a period of time, largely for middle-income people, because, you know, we gave them a good tax cut but we’re going to give them a fairly substantial cut. And that gives a lot of money to the consumer. One of the reasons we’re doing well, and other countries are not doing well — China is having a hard time. They’re all really — not too many are doing well. We’re doing better than anybody in the world by far. It’s because our consumer is rich now because of what we’ve done with a lot of things: jobs, but also tax cuts. They have money, and other consumers don’t have money. So that’s great. That’s really — it’s an honor to meet you again. And it was good seeing you there, and I look forward to seeing that plant go up. But I think you’re going probably be doing numerous plants in the United States. Right. Right. Right. You gave them — you gave them the bonus? You gave them a piece of the cut? And the rest went into investment? No, it’s a great thing. Thank you very much. That’s beautiful. Thank you. Okay, final question. Go ahead. Good. Yeah. Good. Yeah, there is. Well, as you know, they were targeted as — and I’m not blaming China for that, because they want to try and win something. And they were targeted, and I made up the difference, as you know, with the tariffs that came from China. So they got targeted from China, and then I took money from China, I gave it to the farmers. And frankly, they didn’t want it. They just want a level playing field. They’re incredible people. But they did well, but now they’re really doing well, because you’re seeing the numbers coming out, and it’s — it’s going to be something very special. Not only that — we have $40 billion coming in from Japan. We have a tremendous amount coming in from the new trade deal that we made with South Korea. And then Canada and Mexico are going to be — you know, the deal is fantastic for our farmers. This is — you know, this is — that’s right. I mean, that’s right, in the truer sense. And you have a good new head of the World Bank too. He’s doing — he’s one of our people. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Sure. Well, that — that, definitely. I thought you said the World Bank. That’s right. But that — that also. Well, listen, I want to thank you all. Congratulations on your success. We hope you come to the United States; invest more billions. Because I view it not as billions, I view it as jobs. And we have great people and we have the greatest country in the world, in my book. And, by the way, India — this has been an honor to be here. And you have a very special Prime Minister. You have somebody who is very special and he really knows what he’s doing. Somebody said, “He’s such a nice man.” I said, “Well, actually, he’s a very tough man.” But he is a nice man. He can be, but he can also be as tough as they come. You know what that means. But he’s done a fantastic job. But we work very closely together, and we create jobs here and he creates jobs over there through yourselves. So again, anything we can do, let us know. Congratulations on your success. And I’m going to say hello to all the people now that work at the embassy, and then we’re going to have a little news conference, unless you guys don’t want to do it. Maybe you don’t have to do it. But we’ll have — — you could just see them saying no. Last time, you know, I did it where I met many, many prime ministers, presidents, all — like for three days. I said, “Well, let’s cancel the news conference because I saw these guys every 45 minutes.” And when I canceled the news conference, all hell broke out. So we’re not going to do that. So, 5 o’clock. We’ll see you at 5 o’clock, okay? Thank you, everybody. Great honor. Thank you very much. END 4:08 P.M. IST
Thank you very much. Please. So we had a couple of really great days in India. Prime Minister Modi is a terrific man. He’s a terrific leader. And we have a lot of things going in terms of product being purchased by India. We just had a meeting. A lot of the press was there. I thought it was a great meeting with some of the biggest businessmen in the world. They come from India. They’re agreeing to invest billions and billions of dollars. You heard it for yourself. They’re going to be investing billions of dollars in our country, so that was the purpose of the trip also. We’re all set for $3 billion worth of helicopters — the Apaches and various other types — in addition to other equipment; they’re buying that. And they’re buying a lot. They’re going to be buying a lot, and they’re also going to be buying a lot of our energy — all forms of our energy — because they need energy, and we have more than anybody. We’re number one in the world now in energy. So that’s going to be very exciting. But I thought it was a great two days. It was a fantastic two days. I’m going to be not at all controversial because I don’t want to blow the two days, plus two days of travel, on one answer — one little answer. Little answer, like John will ask me one little simple question, and you’ll blow it out, and that will be the end of the trip. They won’t even talk about the trip. So I’ll be very, very conservative of my answers, if you don’t mind. But we did — we had a great — we had a great time. We had a — great meetings. And we’re going for a state dinner, and then after that, we get back onto the plane and we go back home. It’s going to be about 19 hours. But we look forward to it. Get in tomorrow. But this was a — this is a tremendous country. It’s 1.4 billion, probably, at least. The most people. And it’s a tremendous market and they really like us, and I think they like us more now than they’ve ever liked us, frankly. We have a terrific — a really great relationship between the Prime Minister and myself. So we’re going to be doing a lot of things. I think it was really, really worth it. You may ask about the coronavirus, which is very well under control in our country. We have very few people with it, and the people that have it are — in all cases, I have not heard anything other. Maybe there’s something new, because for two days, I haven’t been seeing too much of that news, of very much news, because it’s been very all-encompassing. We have — we’ve accomplished a lot. We had a lot of meetings, as you know. But the people are getting better. They’re all getting better. We brought in some Americans from a ship, because it was really the right thing to do, and they’re in quarantine. And we think they’ll be in very good shape very, very soon. We discussed a lot of different elements. We actually discussed the coronavirus. And at this moment, India doesn’t have much of a problem, they feel. We certainly — it wasn’t expressed that they did, which is great. And I think that whole situation will start working out. A lot of talent, a lot of brainpower is being put behind it. Two and a half billion dollars we’re putting in. I see that Chuck Schumer criticized that. He thought it should be more. And if I gave more, he’d say it should be less. It’s automatic, you know, with these characters. They’re not — they’re just not good for our country. If I gave more, he’d say, “It should be less.” But that’s what they do. In the meantime, that’s all they can do. They’re not getting anything done. We have so many things we could get done. We could so easily do prescription drugs. You know, last year was the first year in 51 years where prescription drug prices went down. But we could drive them down really well if we had the Democrat votes. We need some additional votes. We would really drive them down, as you know. So, with that, I think what we’ll do is take some questions and we’ll go to a nice state dinner and then we go home. Yeah, John, go ahead. 
Thank you very much, everybody. And a man who is highly respected and a great — formerly great athlete, at least — — in my opinion, he’s a great athlete. Johnny, please. Go ahead. Whoa, I like that. You can stand or sit. Right. Well, thank you very much, Johnny. Thank you. So, this is great, and we appreciate this. This is a very beautiful, good-looking ball. It’s an honor to be involved with bringing the World Cup to the United States. I was involved as President-elect and even a little bit before that. But they called and they said, “Could you help?” And through yourself and your people, you chose the United States. And we’re also bringing some games to Mexico and bringing some games to Canada. And that’ll be tremendous. But I really appreciate it. And I appreciate your steadfast movement. You just didn’t stop. You wanted to have it there, and I wanted to have it there, and we really did it before we came to office. Before I got into office, we did that one. But it’s going to be very exciting. You know, we have the Olympics coming — which I was very involved in — in ’28. So between the World Cup and the Olympics, that’s going to be very exciting. We have plenty of other good things. But I want to thank you very much. You’ve been my great friend, and it’s an honor. Around the table tonight, we have the greatest businessmen in the world — names that I know very well but faces that I know very well, usually from looking at business publications for many years. And I thought what we’d do is just quickly go around the room, and you could introduce yourself and the name of your company. These people, we keep them down to a minimum. We could have had hundreds and hundreds, but we kept it down to a minimum, out of respect for you. But I thought you may go down and just introduce yourselves and where you’re from, a little bit about your company. Or, if you want to say something, this is a great time to promote what you want to promote. And you have been terrific. Congratulations. We’ll start with you. Thank you, Patrice. That’s right. Thank you very much. That’s an honor. Thank you. Thank you. You’ve done a great job. Thank you very much. Please. Please. And that’s one of the reasons I’m here. Billions and billions of dollars is now coming back to the United States, and auto companies that made commitments that they’ll be announcing. But billions of dollars is coming back to the United States. We appreciate that. Thank you. Please. Larry? You know — we all know Larry. Larry Kudlow. Thank you, Larry. Great job. How’s the economy going? Okay? Okay. He gave us the right answer. Please. Right. Go ahead, please. And a military play, too. Very important, militarily. So, Ericsson has done a great job with 5G. And we’re working with your company, as you know. We’re bringing down the time periods. And spectrum, we’re opening it up. We have Department of State, we have Commerce, and we have the military. So we’re opening it all up. So we’ll be — we’re in very good shape. I think we’re far advanced, much further than people understand. We got off to a very late start before I got here. But once I got here, we’ve really caught up. So thank you very much. Congratulations. Great company. Thank you. Oh, good. I heard that. That’s great. That’s great. We’ll see you at the opening. Great. That’s great. So you’ve made about 80 percent since I took office. So you happy to — — you’re very happy. He’s invested here. And if he invested badly, he’s about 80 percent up. That’s if you’ve done badly, and I know you never do badly. Okay, thank you. A lot. Well, he is a great gentleman doing a great job. Thank you very much. And you’re doing very well and advanced with 5G, so that’s really great. And we’re giving you a lot of business. Thank you very much. Thank you. A lot of great progress being made, I know that. Thank you very much. Keep those prices down, please. No, thank you very much. And you know what they can do? They can bring out the dinner, we’ll keep going, and if the press would like to have dinner, we’ll serve you after we’re finished. Yeah, bring out the dinner, please. Go ahead.
I thought that we would do it the way other; that the more I thought about this, the better it is. It’s — you can get your arms around it better the way we’ve got it. I like it better the way we’ve done it. I just want to say this is a great day for both China and the United States. This is an agreement that people have been talking about for 40 years and never were able to get even a piece of paper signed. And we never had an agreement. And this is going to be a great agreement for both countries. It’s far greater than $200 billion, and it’ll grow every year. It also unifies the countries. And President Xi has been so nice as to talk about other things having to do — outside of the agreement — such as fentanyl; we’re working on that. We’re going to be working very closely together on North Korea. And as I said inside, it’s like a world-class chess match or poker match. We are going to work together, and we’re going to work together for the benefit of our countries, but also, very importantly, for the benefit of the world. So this is very big day for the United States. This is a very big day for China. This is a day that nobody thought could happen, and it did happen. So it’s my honor to be here. And I have to say, Mr. Vice Premier, it’s been a great honor to become your friend. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. And it’s a great honor to have you. Please. Thank you. 
Well, thank you very much. And thank you to Miriam. Thank you. She’s so cute, she said, “I didn’t finish my speech. What should I do?” I said, “Go ahead and finish it. Don’t worry about it.” Don’t let a little music get in your way. And it was a beautiful speech. That was a beautiful speech. Thank you both. These are great people, and they love Israel. And I have to say, on behalf of everyone here today, I want to thank Miriam and Sheldon for the extraordinary commitment they make to fostering an unbreakable bond between the United States and Israel. It’s unbreakable. Unbreakable. Each of you in this room tonight is a national treasure. Just remember that too. Before continuing, I also want to express our profound support to our entire nation for the victims of the evil and barbaric attack at the Naval Air Station in Pensacola, Florida. Our hearts break for the families who lost their precious loved ones in this atrocity. Another atrocity. We send the urgent prayers of all Americans. During times of pain, Americans always stand together and never leave each other’s side. We do best under pressure. Today, I’m here to talk about how peace-loving nations can work together to build a future of greater security, prosperity, and hope for our children and generations to come. I’d like to begin by saying how truly thrilled I am to become the President of the United States and to address the fastest-growing Jewish organization in the nation: the Israeli American Council. Thank you. Great job. Great job. Fastest-growing in the nation. Wow, that’s big stuff. But I know some of the people in this audience. Many of you I know, and I’m not surprised to hear that. Thank you for the invitation to address you today, and congratulations to your outstanding Chief Executive Officer, Shoham Nicolet — Shoham, thank you — — as well as your entire leadership, and all of those incredible people that work so hard: Naty Saidoff. Naty? Where are you, Naty? Thank you. Thank you very much. Great job. And Shawn Evenhaim. Thank you. I don’t know if that was good, but not bad. We wanted to put a little extra spin on it. Thank you, Shawn. Great job. We’re also grateful to be joined by a group of incredible people that are with you all the way: a friend of mine, a man who’s done a fantastic job for this country, Secretary Ben Carson. Ben? Where are you, Ben? Ben. Thank you, Ben. Incredible job. And we have two warriors, and they are congressmen, and they’re fighting all the time and they’re defending our country, defending your President against oppression. That’s what it is. And our poll numbers keep going up. You’ll explain that to me. But they are indeed warriors. Congressman Jim Jordan, Congressman Michael Waltz. Please, stand up. And we have a lot of politicians here tonight, but I have to ask a man that happens to be a truly brilliant young man. I’m a little bit prejudice when I say that. But he loves Israel and he’s fighting hard for Israel. He wants to make peace with your neighbors. And a lot of people say that can’t be done. A lot of people say it can’t be done; it’s the hardest of all deals. I love deals, and I used to hear the toughest of all deals is peace with Israel and the Palestinians. They say that’s the toughest of all deals. But if Jared Kushner can’t do it, it can’t be done. Thank you, Jared. Thank you, Jared. Incredible job he’s doing. He wants to see that. And he loves Israel — that, I can tell you. And we’re delighted to have with us President Juan Orlando Hernandez of Honduras and the First Lady of Honduras. And I have to tell you — thank you, sir — that President Hernandez is working with the United States very closely. You know what’s going on on our southern border. And we’re winning after years and years of losing. We’re stopping drugs at a level that has never happened. Unfortunately, the drugs become worse; they become bigger quantities. You have no idea what’s happening. They’re being smuggled in from all parts of the world. But we’ve never had anything like it. And we’re building a wall. Now we’re up to almost 100 miles. And we’re getting a lot of support not only from Honduras but from Guatemala, from El Salvador. We’re getting tremendous support from Mexico. Mexico has got some difficult problems, as you know, but they are really helping us. And the President of Mexico has become a friend of mine, and he’s working hard. Right now, we have 27,000 Mexican soldiers on our southern border telling people, “You can’t come in.” You know that, right? It’s a good job they’re doing. So thank you. And thank you, Mr. President, Madam. Thank you very much for coming. Let me also extend my deep appreciation to Israel’s Ambassador to the United States, a great gentleman and a friend of mine: Ron Dermer. Ron Dermer. Ron, thank you. Known you a long time, Ron, haven’t I? Huh? Long before this. Thanks as well to Florida Chief Financial Officer Jimmy Patronis. Thank you, Jimmy. Thank you, Jimmy. Thank you. Great job. Florida — . Wow, got a good fan club. Florida Senate President Bill Galvano. Thank you, Bill. Majority Leader of the Florida House Dane Eagle. Thank you, Dane. And Chairman of the Florida Republican Party Joe Gruters. Thank you, Joe. Great job. How we doing, Joe? I think we’re doing pretty well, Joe. Right? Tells me we’re leading in every poll. We’re doing better than we did on Election Night. But you know what? We’ll take Election Night. It was just fine. Somebody said we’re way ahead. And I said, “Let’s just win by one vote. That’s okay too.” No, we’re way ahead. We’re doing good. We’re all doing good together. I also want to recognize the Israeli Shalva Band for their amazing performance tonight. You’re going to hear them again in a couple of minutes. I want to thank you very much. That was a great performance. Millions of people watched their terrific appearance at Eurovision earlier this year. They were incredible, and they are an inspiration to the entire world. And thank you very much. They’re going to be back. They’re going to be back. This is truly an extraordinary time for America. Our economy is booming like never before, and our people are thriving. You saw what happened yesterday. It was announced that 266,000 jobs were added in November. And that shattered all expectations. They were thinking about 70,000. They were thinking about 90,000 — which isn’t so bad. Two hundred and sixty-six thousand. Plus, they corrected previous months, and you could add that to it. Plus, we created 50,000 manufacturing jobs. Remember the previous administration? “You need a magic wand.” Well, we’re doing great with manufacturing. We’re bringing manufacturing back. If you don’t have manufacturing, what do you have? Not a lot of good things. But we’re bringing manufacturing back. We’ve created 7 million new jobs since the election. And if I would have said that before, or if I would have said that during the campaign, the fake-news media would have gone crazy. They would have said that’s not possible. Nearly 160 million Americans are now working. That’s the highest ever recorded in the history of our country. We’ve never had so many people working. Unemployment has reached the lowest level in half a century. America is winning again, America is respected again. America is winning and respected, frankly, like never before. It’s happened. Now, it’s truly my honor to be here this evening to celebrate our progress to deepen the incredible partnership between the United States and Israel. And it suffered very gravely in the last administration. I don’t know if you know that. So many of you voted for people in the last administration. Someday you’ll have to explain that to me, because I don’t think they liked Israel too much. I’m sorry. I don’t think they liked Israel too much. After eight long years in which our alliance was undermined and neglected, I am happy to report that the United States-Israeli relationship is stronger now than ever before. America and Israel are woven together by history, heritage, and the hearts of our people. We share a love of freedom, democracy, religious liberty, the rule of law, and national sovereignty. And we share that. The story of Israel is a tale of triumph in the face of centuries of oppression and persecution. The Jewish people endured, persevered, and flourished beyond measure, building a thriving, proud, beautiful, and mighty nation in the Holy Land. The friendship between our countries is essential to achieving a more safe, just, and peaceful world. That is why every single day since I took the Oath of Office, I have stood firmly, strongly, and proudly with the people of Israel. You know that. The Jewish State has never had a better friend in the White House than your President, Donald J. Trump. That, I can tell you. For over 20 years, every previous President promised to move the U.S. Embassy to Jerusalem. And they never acted, they never did it. They never had any intention of doing it, in my opinion. But unlike other politicians, I kept my promises. Two years ago this week, I officially recognized Israel’s true and eternal capital, and we opened the American Embassy in Jerusalem, finally. And, you know, that’s an interesting story because David Friedman — do you know David Friedman, our great Ambassador? Well, David was one of the most successful lawyers in New York; maybe the most successful lawyer in New York. But he loves Israel. He loves this country, but he loves Israel. And I said — called him. I know how much he feels about, you know, the heart. He’d go there all the time. I’d say, “David, would you like to be the ambassador to Israel? You’re giving up a lot. You’re giving up one of the great practices in New York City. Would you like it?” It took him about two seconds to say, “Yes, that’s what I want to do.” And he gave up his law practice. He gave up a lot of great clients. He became the ambassador. And a lot of conflict was taking place. A lot of bad feelings, a lot of bad will. We have to get the people of our country, of this country, to love Israel more. I have to tell you that. We have to do it. We have to get them to love Israel more. Because you have people that are Jewish people, that are great people — they don’t love Israel enough. You know that. You know that. But David Friedman is not one of them. And he went to Israel and immediately made an impact. And then I said, “You know, I want to do what no President has done. Many, many Presidents said they were going to move the embassy to Jerusalem. And they never did it.” And I understand why they never did it. They never did it because when they thought I was going to do it, and when they heard that I was going to make an announcement in two weeks, I started getting calls from everyone. I got calls from presidents. I got calls from prime ministers. I got calls from kings and queens. I got calls from everyone. “Don’t do it. Don’t do it, please.” Don’t do it. It will be terrible if you do it. It will be horrible if you do it.” And I heard this from many people. And then the time came closer and closer, and I did something that was smart, because I learned then and there — for that two-week period, I was inundated — I learned why other Presidents, in all fairness to them, why they made the campaign promise but why they never got it off: Because they were besieged by foreign leaders. The top, the biggest people in the world called them. You wouldn’t believe how many; some countries you never even heard of were calling. I said, “What’s that country all about?” And about a week and a half out, I said, “Listen, tell these people I’m going to call them back. I’m so busy.” True. I said, “Tell them I’m going to call them back. I’ll get to them as soon as I can.” And one week went by, and then three days went by, and then I made the announcement at the White House that we’re moving the embassy to Jerusalem and that Jerusalem will be the capital of Israel. Finally, somebody said it. Right? And it was a big deal, and it was great. And a day went by, and a second day went by, and there was no violence. I heard there was going to be massive violence. They showed violence — because about 20 people were violent in the front row, but there was nobody behind them. So CNN had the cameras very low, pointing to the sky. It’s true. It’s true. They said, “Massive crowds have gathered. Massive crowds.” And I looked, I said, “That’s a strange angle. I’ve never seen that angle.” It was like — you had a cameraman sitting on the floor pointing up. But every once in a while, you say, “There’s nobody behind the people in the front row. What’s going on?” And it was a con. It was fake news as usual. So these days went by, and then I made the phone calls. And I’d call up the kings and I’d call up the queens, and I’d call up everybody — the presidents, the prime ministers. I’d say, “Hi, I’m sorry, I couldn’t get back to you quickly” — — “but what’s up?” “What’s up?” And they said — Thank you. Well, I learned all these tricks from Sheldon. So, you know. So I call: “Hi, King. What’s up? What’s happening?” He said, “I wanted to tell you I didn’t like you doing that with Israel.” “Oh, man! I wish I called you back a little sooner. I’m sorry.” Call a president: “What’s up, President?” “I wanted to tell you not to do that, sir. But you’ve done it.” What can I — “Yeah, I wish — you know, I wish I could have gotten you sooner, but I’m so busy.” I took about 40 of those calls. Right? Everyone was the same: “I wanted to tell you…” I said, “But, you know, in the meantime, it opened and it was, you know, really pretty amazing.” It was done. We did the deal. Then we had a problem: We had to build it. And I’m a builder. I’m really a good builder. I really probably do that the best. Some people said, “Are you a better builder or a better politician?” And I thought I was going to say “builder,” because I really was good, you know? I built good. And then I said to myself, “Well, let’s see: I was a good builder. I was very successful. I did a great job. Know how to build.” But then I got into politics. And I only ran once, and I became President, so I guess I’m a better politician. I don’t know. Maybe I’m a better politician. I don’t know, maybe I’m a better politician. I don’t know. But I’m a good builder. So we now have the designation. And one of the generals — good general — came in front of me: “Sir, would you please sign this order?” And, you know, in the United States, plenty of money. This is the most beautiful orders you’ve ever seen. You know, I’m used to signing just like a piece of paper. But now you have these gorgeous books that are solid leather, and everything is leather, leather, leather. Beautiful. Everything is beautiful. These are like notes that don’t even mean anything to me. I don’t use them. Like, look at that. Isn’t that beautiful? I’m used to getting a piece of paper. But this is — this is the way they do. So they bring in this gorgeous folder, twice the size of that. I said, “What is this?” “Sir, this is for the embassy in Israel.” I said, “Well, we just announced it, so what is it for?” “We’re looking for land, but this is a commitment to spend $2 billion.” I said, “Two billion?” It’s like a one-story building, right? “So we’re looking for land, and we have some locations that we think are very good, but it’s very expensive in Jerusalem, sir. But we have the right to go up to $2 billion, sir.” And I had the first name; I had “Donald” signed. Then I heard it was 2 billion for the embassy, and I stopped signing it. And I called David Friedman. I said, “David, I need some help. I just approved an embassy, and they want to spend $2 billion to build the embassy. And I know what that means: You’re never going to get it built. It’ll take years and years.” I said, “You know what’s going on here? They’re looking at terrible locations.” There are no good locations. You know why? Because we had the best already. We were there first, right? We were there early, with you. He said, “You know, but could you give me two days, sir? I’d like to take a look and see.” So he calls me back two days later. So we’re going to spend 2 billion, and one of them was going to buy a lousy location. A lot of you are in the real estate business because I know you very well. You’re brutal killers. Not nice people at all. But you have to vote for me; you have no choice. You’re not going to vote for Pocahontas, I can tell you that. You’re not going to vote for the wealth tax. “Yeah, let’s take 100 percent of your wealth away.” No, no. Even if you don’t like me; some of you don’t. Some of you I don’t like at all, actually. And you’re going to be my biggest supporters because you’ll be out of business in about 15 minutes, if they get it. So I don’t have to spend a lot of time on that. But David calls me back and he goes, “Sir” — he always used to call me “Donald.” Now he can’t help but call me “President.” I said, “David, call me ‘Donald.'” “Yes, yes, Mr. President. I can’t do it, sir.” That’s respect for the office, right? Maybe it’s respect for me. But I’ve known him a long time. He goes, “Mr. President, I don’t feel…” — I have many friends like that. Richard LeFrak. Steve Roth. Steve Wynn. He calls “Mr. President.” He always called me “Donald.” And they always returned my call immediately upon the call being made. They used to take a day, a half a day. Now I call back: “Give me Steve Wynn, please.” “He’s on the phone.” They’re great people. But David calls: “Mr. President, I have good news.” “What’s the good news? Tell me. I need some good news. I got people trying to impeach me.” Don’t forget, this has been going on for three years. This is before — I think maybe before I started coming down on the escalator with that beautiful First Lady. Is she an incredible First Lady? Think of it: I’m coming down the escalator, and people behind my back are trying to do a subversion of government. Think of that. That’s what it’s about. And we have — by the way, before — Jim Jordan, please stand up. Michael Waltz, please stand up. Congressmen. Michael. Jim. Warriors. I don’t know if you have any other warriors in here, congressmen, but they are warriors. Support them. Support them. Support them. So the Ambassador calls up — Ambassador Friedman — goes, “Sir, I have good news.” “What?” By this time, you know, it’s two days, so I’m thinking I’m on to the next subject. Dealmakers know what I’m talking. I’m like already on to the next. “What?” He said, “You know, you asked me to check on the embassy in Jerusalem. Well, we already own a site that’s much better than any site that’s ever going to be bought. It’s bigger, better, has better views. It’s the best site in Jerusalem. And we can have setbacks, everything else.” He said, “I have more good news, sir. There’s already a building on it.” “And we can take that building and renovate it.” I said, “No kidding. That sounds good to me.” I love renovation. Because if you’re smart, renovation costs you much less. If you’re stupid, it costs you much more. You ever hear these guys? “Oh, it’s more expensive to renovate a building.” How do you figure that? You have a frame? You have the walls on the exterior built? I mean, how does it cost you more? If you’re stupid, it costs you more. But David is smart. So he calls me. So they were going to do $2 billion, right? So David calls: “We have the biggest site, the best site. It’s already there. It’s a building. It’s mostly not occupied. And, sir, we could redo it I think for $200,000.” And it’s the first time in my life I’ve ever said this: I said, “David, that’s too cheap. It doesn’t even sound good. You got to go more.” Usually, I’m trying to cut price. But for 200,000, I said, “What the hell kind of a — David, make it like 500,000. We’ll do it for half a million.” And then I have a friend, Ron Baron — nice guy. You know Ron Baron? He’s a wealthy guy. He’s in a beautiful building, and his office has a wall, opposite the elevators, going into his 40th story, 50th story of this office building. Very successful guy. He’s got Jerusalem stone. Did anybody ever hear — Jerusalem stone? And he drives me crazy. Every time I go to his office, he says, “Look at the Jerusalem stone.” He’s been saying it. I said, “Ron, you’ve told me that 10 times.” But I’ve heard “Jerusalem stone” for 10, 15 years, right? “Look at it, Donald.” I’m getting off the elevator. I said, “Ron, I’ve seen a lot of stone.” “But this is Jerusalem.” It comes from Jerusalem. So I say to David, “David, let me ask you a question. Jerusalem stone. Let’s do the whole damn building in Jerusalem stone.” Huh? You got so much Jerusalem stone. I said, “Is it available, David” He said, “We have so much we don’t know what the hell to do with it.” So he has a wall opposite the elevators — rich guy. And I got a whole damn building made out of Jerusalem stone. True. So the end of the story is this: I say, “David, let’s go.” He calls me up in three months. He said, “Sir, the building is just about done.” I said, “Good. How much?” “Less than $500,000. It’s all Jerusalem stone. We have an opening.” No, but think of this. Think of this, right? So we’re going to spend $2 billion. It wouldn’t be built, Sheldon, for 10 years, fif- — don’t forget: At some point, whether it’s 5 years from now, 9 years from now, 13 years from now — I’m doing this to drive the media crazy. Because a lot of them say, “You know he’s not leaving, don’t you?” One of these characters — these people are so stupid. One of them said — one of them said, “You know he’s going to win, don’t you? And you know, at the end of his second term, you know he’s not leaving. He’s not leaving. You know that.” And I thought he’s a comedian. I thought he was kidding. He’s for real. So now we have to start thinking about that, because it’s not a bad idea. No, but these people are going crazy. When they all scream, “Four more years, four more years,” I always say, “Make it 12 years and you’ll drive them crazy.” Twelve more years. But if I don’t get the build- — But if I don’t get the building built, it’s never going to get built because you’re going to have some guy like Obama or Crooked Hillary. By the way, could you imagine Crooked Hillary Clinton telling — I’m telling you a story of what happened, right? We were going to spend billions to build this embassy, and we built it for less than 500,000 bucks in a better location that we already own. We were there a long time ago, had it a long time. Could you imagine her saying, “Let’s see if we can build it for $493,000 instead of $2 billion”? Okay, number one, it would have never been designated; it wouldn’t have happened. So she wouldn’t have to worry about building it because it would have never happened. But I am honored to say that we went there, we cut the ribbon. The building is totally gorgeous. Maybe someday you’ll build a new one. I wouldn’t advise it. I’d say fix it up and do a job. But you’ve got a beautiful embassy. It’s in Jerusalem, and you have something that you’ve always wanted. It was a great, great day. And to support Israel’s security, I’ve also recognized Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights. And that was another thing that was going to take — every President said that also, not with the same aptitude and not with the same strength of what they were saying about Jerusalem and the capital, but they were all talking about Golan Heights. It’s been worked on for exactly 52 years. People would have summits over the Golan Heights. They’d fly in, they’d stay for two days. They’d negotiate. Leaders of countries — for 52 years they’d do this. They’d have summits every two, three years, talk about the Golan Heights. I said to David, “David, tell me about the Golan Heights in 30 seconds or less.” He said, “It’s high. It’s important. It’s sovereign, it’s security.” And I said, “What do you think, David?” He said, “I think you could do it. I can’t believe you’re even asking me this question. Where did you come up with this idea?” “I said I’ve been hearing about it for years.” Fifty-two years, and I get “bing” — and we did it. It was done. It was done. And as Israel has endured the new wave of rocket attacks in recent weeks, my administration has made clear that America supports Israel’s absolute right to self-defense. We’ve also called for the release of Israeli hostages and the return of the remains of Israeli soldiers captured by Hamas terrorists in Gaza. And this evening, as you probably heard, we’re honored to be joined by Rachelle Fraenkel and Bat-Galim Shaer — two mothers of Israeli boys who were kidnapped and murdered by Hamas terrorists in 2014. Rachelle and Bat-Galim have responded to that terrible evil with courage and inspiration. They’ve established an award to recognize leaders who advance unity among Israelis of all backgrounds and religions, striving to build a more secure and hopeful future for us all. So, Rachelle and Bat-Galim, we cannot fathom your grief, but we will honor the sacred memory of your sons forever. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. To combat these wicked extremist organizations, I signed legislation to withhold U.S. taxpayer dollars from the Palestinian Authority until they stop rewarding terrorists with blood money. Another thing that no other administration would do — I would say to them — I went back and spoke to negotiators, because for years and years, they’ve been trying to make this deal. I said, “Did you ever hold back the money?” They said, “No, why? We didn’t think it was right to do.” I said, “I do.” “I do.” So we don’t pay anything anymore. And we look forward to the day when we can help out. But right now, if they’re going to say bad things about us, if they’re going to do evil acts, we’re not paying it. And that’s the way it is. That’s the way it is. It’s a lot of money. Almost $600 million a year. So we withhold it. And hopefully we’ll work a deal and everybody will be happy. But I don’t know how the hell you negotiate a deal when you’re paying them money. How did that happen, Sheldon? Who was negotiating that deal, Sheldon? It wasn’t you, I can tell you. That was one of my first things. I said, “How do you do that? You have this deal, you’re paying hundreds of millions of dollars, and they’re saying bad things.” No, that’s not the way. They’re not the only country I’ve done that to. We’ve done that to numerous countries. Across the Middle East, my administration has made historic progress to crush the depraved and sinister forces of radical Islamic terrorism. When I took office three years ago, ISIS controlled more than 20,000 square miles in Iraq and Syria. That’s the equivalent of the state of Ohio, in size. Today, the ISIS caliphate has been 100 percent obliterated. One hundred percent. And just a few weeks ago, U.S. Special Forces — incredible soldiers — brought the world’s number-one most wanted terrorist to justice. The monstrous animal known as al-Baghdadi, the founder and leader of ISIS, is dead. Never again will this savage killer hurt another man, woman, or child. You saw the men in the orange jumpsuits with somebody behind them — a savage with a knife — and they chopped off their head. That was al-Baghdadi. That was al-Baghdadi’s people. And a lot of people died that way, and they died a lot of other ways too. And he died a rough way. And these soldiers, 68 of them, they jumped off those helicopters. And I watched it. It was incredible. I literally was able to watch it because of what we can do technologically. I watched it, and it was an incredible sight. They jumped off long before those helicopters were anywhere near to the ground. Michael would understand that very much because he was a great soldier. But they jumped off those helicopters — –and they charged that house, and the enemy didn’t have any idea what the hell hit him. It was incredible, actually, to see. Incredible. Our message to the bloodthirsty terrorist is clear: You don’t stand a chance against the awesome power of the United States military. I have rebuilt the United States military. When I took it over, it was depleted. It was old. We had fighter jets that were 50 years old. It was old, it was tired. Now we have spent two and a half trillion dollars on rebuilding our military. And we have a military that’s the most advanced, the most powerful, by far, of any in the world. Two and a half trillion dollars. We rebuilt our military. My administration is also confronting the world’s number-one state of terror. You know who that is: your state sponsor of terror, the brutal dictatorship in Iran. And I said to Sheldon — I said to Sheldon, “What do you think was bigger? Israel and — if you look, what was the bigger thing: Israel and the embassy going in, and it became Jerusalem, the capital of Israel? Or the Golan Heights?” He said, “Neither.” I said, “What do you mean ‘neither,’ Sheldon?” He said, “The biggest thing you did for Israel was breaking up and terminating the horrible, one-sided, catastrophic deal that was made by President Obama.” Right? I said, “I never thought of it that way, Sheldon, but I agree with you. If you want to know the truth, I agree with you.” We paid $150 billion to Iran; 1.8 billion in cash. We got nothing. But that’s a different country today. That doesn’t mean they’re going to come out and hit. And they might, and they might not. But they have riots all over their country. They don’t have money. We put sanctions on them; the strongest sanctions ever imposed on a country. And let’s see what happens. Their GDP went down 25 percent this year. Twenty-five. Nobody has ever even heard of that. So we’ll see. And you know what? We can never give them a nuclear weapon. We can never do that. We can never do that. But maybe we’ll be able to make a deal. The regime funds violence and chaos and mayhem throughout the region, but the greatest victims are its own people. In recent weeks, we’ve seen the Iranian people rising up to reclaim the noble destiny of their nation. In response, the dictatorship has killed hundreds and hundreds and probably thousands of those people. Probably thousands. You know they turned off the Internet. There’s no Internet. There’s no form of communication. I believe thousands of people have been killed. Thousands and thousands of people have been arrested. America will always stand with the Iranian people in their righteous struggle for freedom. The Iranian regime routinely traffics in the most toxic and heinous anti-Semitism. You know that better than anybody. Last year, the country’s Supreme Leader, as they call him, said Israel is a malignant cancerous tumor that has to be removed and eradicated from the face of the Earth. We must never allow a regime that chants “Death to America” or “Death to Israel” to obtain a nuclear weapon. That’s all we can say. And it’s for this reason that I withdrew the United States from that disastrous Iran nuclear deal and implemented those sanctions, which are so biting and so tough. We’re also working to free hostages unjustly detained around the world, including in Iran. This morning, you probably read and probably saw, I announced that Xiyue, an American citizen and Princeton University grad student imprisoned in Iran for three years during the Obama administration, taken during the Obama administration — was not a spy, by the way — is coming home. Throughout history, anti-Semitism has produced untold pain, suffering evil, and destruction. We must not ignore the vile poison or those who spread its venomous creed. My administration is committed to aggressively challenging and confronting anti-Semitic bigotry in every resource, and using every single weapon at our disposal. Roughly 80 times, this past decade, the United Nations Human Rights Council has denounced Israel while ignoring many of the worst human rights abuses anywhere in the world. To call out this egregious hypocrisy, I withdrew the United States from the U.N. Human Rights Council. Recently, the European Union Court of Justice has also tried to discriminate against products made in Israeli settlements, advancing the agenda of anti-Israeli Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions movement, or commonly known as You know all about it. You know all about it, right? My administration has now corrected a longstanding injustice by officially declaring that international law does not prohibit civilian settlements in the West Bank. And as President, I want to be very clear my administration vigorously condemns the BDS campaign against Israel. But sadly, BDS has also made disturbing headway on American college campuses. You know that, don’t you? Here with us today is Adela Cojab, a recent graduate of New York University, who courageously stood for Israel in the face of hostility and bigotry. Incredible hostility and incredible bigotry. Adela, would you please come up and quickly, or not quickly — any way you want — share your story. Please come up. Thank you. Thank you, Adela. Thank you very much, Adela. Shockingly, a number of far-left members of Congress have also recently joined the international effort to bully, attack, and denigrate Israel. And it’s incredible what’s been happening with your Congress. Ten years ago, it was unthinkable. Six years ago, it was pretty unthinkable. And now, to see what’s going on and to watch Nancy Pelosi and these people be pushed around is unbelievable. Earlier this year, a number of prominent Democrat lawmakers sponsored legislation to support the BDS movement. You know that, right? Outrageously, the resolution compared boycotting Israel to boycotting Nazi Germany, a grave insult to the memory of the 6 million Jews who were murdered in the Holocaust. You remember that, don’t you, where this was just put before Congress. This is different. This is different than what it was. This couldn’t have happened 10 years ago; couldn’t have happened. Twenty years ago, it would have been impossible. Ten years ago, it would have been impossible. You’ve got to be very careful. Make no mistake: Radical lawmakers who support the BDS movement are advancing anti-Israel and anti-Semitic propaganda. And Americans will not stand for it. We’re not going to stand for it. We’ve also seen far-left members of Congress proliferate dangerous anti-Semitic rhetoric. You’ve seen it. It’s rhetorically and morally unacceptable. One lawmaker even wrote that Israel has hypnotized the world, and said, “Support for Israel is all about the Benjamins.” You heard that. And I’ll be honest: That’s one of the nicer statements. Far worse. She said far worse than that, and so did others in Congress. My administration strongly opposes this despicable rhetoric. And as long as you’re — and I am standing before you, as long as I’m your President, it makes no difference. It’s not happening. Okay? It stops at my desk. I said in my State of the Union Address last year, “With one voice, we must confront this hatred anywhere and everywhere that it occurs.” We’re grateful to be joined tonight by our new Special Envoy to Monitor and Combat Anti-Semitism, Elan Carr. Elan, please come up and say a few words. Elan, please. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you, Elan. From America’s earliest days, Jewish citizens have made some of the greatest and most extraordinary contributions to American life and culture. Jewish Americans have fought, bled, and died at every major American war dating back to our struggle for independence. On this very morning, 78 years ago, more than 2,000 Americans were killed in the surprise attack on Pearl Harbor. Three days after that attack, a Jewish American airman from Brooklyn, Master Sergeant Meyer Levin, was among the first Americans to bomb a Japanese warship. Sergeant Levin went on to fly in more than 60 harrowing missions in World War Two. A great hero. In 1943, he volunteered for another dangerous mission. On his way back, he and his crew were caught in a violent storm, and their plane began to stall. Sergeant Levin’s final act was one of selfless sacrifice. He unfastened the life raft and gave it to his fellow airmen. As they jumped out of the crashing plane, he shouted, “I hope you make it. I hope you make it.” Three American airmen survived that day because of Sergeant Levin’s extraordinary valor. One of those brave airmen was his friend, Jack Matisoff, also a Jewish American from Brooklyn. Jack went on to complete another 43 missions in World War Two. After the war, he came home, got married, and soon he had two sons. One of them is Alan Matisoff, a veteran of the Army Reserves, who spent 17 years as a police officer. Alan would not have been born without Sergeant Levin’s bravery. And Alan joins us here tonight. And, Alan, I will tell you, your presence this evening testifies to the love and the strength of a great American hero. And thank you very much for being here. Thank you very much. Thank you, Alan. In every generation, Jewish American patriots have strengthened, sustained, uplifted, and inspired our nation. In a moment, the Shalva Band will conclude this event with a song that we know very well. Before they do, I want to tell the famous story behind it. In 1918, a young Jewish American soldier stationed at Camp Upton, in New York, wrote a prayer in the form of a song. His name was Irving Berlin — maybe the greatest of them all. And he held that song close to his heart for more than 20 years. He did not release the song until 1938, as the world learned of Hitler’s evil atrocities against the Jewish people. On November 10th of that year, his song broadcast through the radio and into the homes all across the country. Millions and millions of people were inspired. It was the first time Americans heard Irving Berlin’s timeless hymn, “God Bless America.” These words became the prayer of our nation, the prayer that traveled to the islands of the Pacific, to the beaches of Normandy, and all the way to Nazi territory, where American soldiers open the gates of concentration camps and liberated Jewish survivors. It’s the prayer that Americans sang as we faced down communism and as we came together as one nation after 9/11. It’s the prayer that still unites us today and the hope that burns bright in our hearts, because we are proud American patriots. We love this magnificent nation with every ounce of our strength, spirit, and soul. So tonight, together, we ask that God bless our military. We ask that God bless our veterans. We ask that God bless our cherished ally, the State of Israel. And with our flag waving high, our people standing tall, and our faith forever strong, we say our prayer once more: God bless America, our home sweet home. Now I’d like to ask the Shalva Band back to the stage for a very, very special performance. Thank you very much. Thank you, everybody. END 9:40 P.M. EST
Okay, thank you very much. I just returned from London, where we had a tremendous success with NATO. The relationship we have with other countries is very, very good. It has to be good; otherwise, they wouldn’t have done what they’ve done. As you know, NATO was suffering very badly from depletion of funds, and it was going down like a rollercoaster goes down. Not up, but down. And I was able to, over the last couple of years, increase their contribution — not the United States, because we were paying far more than anybody else, to put it mildly. It was really getting ridiculous. And over the last couple years, I had them increase by $130 billion. And then, over the next couple of years — and this was done largely over these last two days, but also set up time before that — they had to now contribute $400 billion more. So it’s a total of $530 billion other countries will be putting into NATO. And NATO now is very financially sound. It’s very strong. Far greater than anybody ever thought. If you look at Secretary General Stoltenberg’s remarks, he was very generous in his remarks about what I’ve done for NATO and what our country has done, but what I’ve done in terms of getting other countries to put up money — because they weren’t putting up money, and now they put up money at a level like has never been seen before, actually. It’s actually never been seen. So I want to thank everybody that was there, and maybe especially Mr. Stoltenberg, who’s really a terrific man. I think he’s done a fantastic job at NATO. So the Secretary General has my great thanks. That was a tremendous success. And I have to say — you know, it wasn’t reported accurately, but that’s okay — but the relationship I have with other countries is really good. Now, they can’t totally love me when I say, you know, “You’re not putting up your money, you’re not putting up your fair share, you’re not spending the kind of money that you’re supposed to be spending — because we’re giving you protection. You’re getting the protection of the U.S. and the greatest military force in the world, and you’re not paying. You’re delinquent.” So I tell some people they’re delinquent. Not everybody can love that. You can’t say in too nice a manner, otherwise they’re going to be just like they’ve been for the last 15 years and not pay, and certainly not pay up to the 2 percent level — which, frankly, isn’t even that high. Frankly, 2 percent isn’t that high. But I had a lunch yesterday that was great with, I call them, the “2 percenters.” These are the people that were at that level. There’s a total of nine countries. And we had the lunch, and a lot of countries are close and getting closer. And some are really not close. And we may do things having to do with trade. It’s not fair that they get U.S. protection and they’re not putting up their money, and they’re — really, I call them — I used that term, “delinquent.” That’s exactly what they are. But we had a tremendous success in London. And NATO is in very, very good shape. And the relationships with other countries are really extraordinary. Today, I’m honored to host the working lunch with ambassadors representing countries on the United Nations Security Council. I want to thank our U.S. Ambassador to the U.N., Kelly Craft, for joining us and doing an extraordinary job at the United Nations. Thank you very much, Kelly. You’re doing fantastically well. The United States holds the rotating presidency of the U.N. Security Council for the month of December. During our lunch, I will outline America’s priorities and ask our distinguished guests from other nations how we can best work together. They have a lot of great ideas. We’ve done this before. We’ve learned a lot. And it’s been really quite an interesting time for me. Today, our nations face a range of shared security threats, including terrorism, drug trafficking, illegal migration, cyberattack, and the spread of nuclear, chemical, and biological weapons. And we’re working very hard on those problems, especially the last three. There can be nothing more important. The Council must take action to confront these and other dangers facing the world. That also includes the behavior of the Iranian regime, which has killed hundreds and hundreds of people in a very short period of time. They’re killing protestors. They turned down their Internet system. People aren’t hearing what’s going on. I would like to see the media get involved in that and go in and see what’s happening, because it’s not a good situation. It’s a horrible situation. It’s something that is going to be a big scandal throughout the world very soon. They’re killing a lot of people. And they’re arresting thousands of their own citizens in a brutal crackdown in recent weeks because they’re protesting. And I think the media should get involved in that. I don’t know that they will because they have their own reasons, but the media should absolutely get involved in that. America will always stand with the Iranian people in their righteous struggle for freedom. They’re not being treated properly. All of that money is being wasted on weapons and on other things, and they’re not treating their people properly. And there are people in — all over the country, they’re rioting and they’re protesting, and they’re very unhappy. We also call on Security Council members to join the United States in our vital efforts to promote religious liberty around the globe. The world is more secure when people have the right to follow their convictions and to worship in peace. And we’ve been very strong on that. And getting back to Iran, I do have to say that I think the Iranian situation could be fixed very quickly and very easily, and it could become really something special, as it was at certain points of time. There are certain points of time where it was doing very well. But for quite a long time, it’s been doing very poorly, but it could be — it could be fixed very quickly. But we have people that just don’t want to do that. For some reason, they just don’t want to do that. They don’t get it. But I want to thank everybody for attending the lunch today. I think what I’m going to do is go around. These are very important people. These are people, in their own countries, that are at the top level and really have great ideas. I learn a lot about their countries. And I’d like to just maybe — we’ll start with Kelly, and she’ll introduce herself and just say a couple of words. And then we’ll go around the room and introduce the representatives from these very important countries. Please, Kelly. That’s very good. Thank you very, Kelly. Please. Good. And I just met your representatives over the last two days, as you know. So, it was very good. Thank you very much. Please. Good. That’s true. Good. Thank you very much. Yes. Good. Thank you. That’s beautifully stated. And we’re having meetings and discussions with your representatives right now, as you know. So it’s going along very well. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. That’s true. Thank you very much. Good. Good. Robin is doing a very good job. She’s fantastic. Thank you. AMBASSADOR DE RIVIÈRE: Nicolas de Rivière, I’m the Permanent Representative of France. Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your hospitalities. It’s a privilege to be here. And thank you also for sharing Kelly with us. Thank you. Good. That’s very nice. Thank you very much. That’s a very interesting conversation we had yesterday with Angela. She’s a terrific woman. She’s really a terrific woman. But we did have that conversation, actually. Good. Thank you very much. Very much. That’s true. I think the U.N. has tremendous potential, actually, as an organization. And it’s doing well. Good leadership right now. Thank you very much. Please. That’s right. And say hello. AMBASSADOR AL- Thank you. AMBASSADOR AL- Yes, it is. AMBASSADOR AL- Say hello. AMBASSADOR AL- Thank you very much. Well, thank you very much. A great country. Sure. I just met with somebody you know very well. Right? Good. Good. Thank you very much. We had a great meeting yesterday, I have to say. And he was a member of the 2 percenters. That means Poland — — So that was very good. So we happened to have lunch also. Thank you very much. Good. I don’t think so. I hope not. Right. Oh, well, we’ll have to take care of it. We’ll take care of it. I agree. And you’re doing a good job, too. I’ve heard from a lot of people. Great job. Thank you very much. Please. Oh, very good. Yeah. Thank you. Yes. That’s great. I hear that. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. Right. Good. I think so. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. AMBASSADOR JÜRGENSON: Thank you. I am Sven Jürgenson, Ambassador of Estonia. And it’s a pleasure and privilege of being here. And thank you so much for having us here. You mentioned the lunch in London. Just driving here, I read an article in one of Estonian newspapers with a funny headline: “The Two Percenters Got a Free Lunch.” That’s right. I paid for it. AMBASSADOR JÜRGENSON: So, thank you. Thank you very much. Yes. Absolutely. Good. Right. Sure. That’s right. Thank you. That’s very nice. Great job. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. AMBASSADOR ĐẶNG: Yes, I am the last one, and there from Vietnam. And I have chance to see you the first time in Da Nang — Right. AMBASSADOR ĐẶNG: — in 2017, in APEC meeting. So this is my great honor to be here today at the White House. And I hope that you will visit our region again. But next year, Malaysia will be the heart of APEC Summit, and Vietnam the heart of ASEAN, EAS. So please come again. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you. And say hello, by the way. We had some great meetings in Vietnam. Very successful meetings. AMBASSADOR ĐẶNG: Thank you. And the trade is doing very well with Vietnam. Thank you very much. So thank you all very much. Again, this last two days have been really amazing. The success of the days, the amount of money raised was a number that nobody could even believe. And if you add it up again, it’s $530 billion over a very short period of time. Much of it is already coming in by other nations, some of whom are represented here today. So that was really something special. And this will be great, and we’re going to learn a lot. And we’re going to give some ideas. And we’re going to have lunch, and a lot of good things will happen. But I appreciate you all being here. And, Kelly, congratulations on doing a fantastic job. Thank you all very much. Q On China, sir? on China? Moving along well. Q Moving along well? It’s moving along very well. Q Will the tariffs go into effect next week, Mr. President? Well, we’ll have to see. But right now we’re moving along. We’re not discussing that, but we are having very major discussions on December 15th. Something could happen, but we are not discussing that yet. We are having very good discussions with China, however. Q Are you worried, sir, about the stain that impeachment might have on your legacy? No, not at all. No, not at all. It’s a hoax. It’s a hoax. It’s a big fat hoax. Q Mr. President, on Iran? Yes, go ahead? Q Mr. President, on Iran, the Pentagon officials are saying that you’re all considering possibly sending more troops to the Middle East because there’s a threat situation — We’ll announce — whatever we do, we’ll announce. But certainly, there might be a threat. And if there is a threat, it will be met very strongly. But we’ll be announcing whatever we may be doing — may or may not be doing. Okay? Q What would you like to see the U.N. in regards to Iran and the crackdown vis-à-vis human rights? Well, the U.N. has actually been involved very much with us. We’re already dealing with the U.N. and dealing very well with the U.N. So they’re very much involved with respect to Iran and other things with us. Thank you all very much. Appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you very much. END 1:33 P.M. EST
Well, thank you very much. These are eight countries, plus us — plus the United States — that are fully paid. They met the goal of 2 percent. We call them the “2 percenters.” Someday, we’ll raise it to 3 percent and 4 percent, maybe. But, right now, we have it. But these are countries that have not been delinquent. They’ve been, in some cases, even more than 2 percent, because they feel so strongly about what we’re doing. And that’s really a sign of respect for the United States. And one of the gentlemen — I won’t mention who — but said it’s so important to have the United States as a part of NATO because of what we’ve done. And just to make you all feel good, we will have spent, under what I’ve done, $2.5 trillion on the military. Two and a half trillion. So that pales in comparison when you look at what we’re talking about, right? So it’s — but it’s two and a half of the greatest equipment in the world. Every form of equipment known to mankind or womankind. So I just want to thank these great countries. And they are great. They’ve become friends of mine, in many cases. And they’re very respected within their own countries. But these are countries that have met the goal of 2 percent. We have, unfortunately, a large number that haven’t met the goal. Some are very close, and they will be. We’ve received an additional $130 billion a year. And, I guess, if you go back three years, it’s perhaps even more than that. But I’ve been doing this for three years. And the Secretary General will tell you, in a few seconds; he’s going to say some — a little bit about it. But when I first came, it was like a rollercoaster down, not up. Down. It was all the way down at the lowest point ever. And since then, we’ve gone up massively. And now we’ll be, by far, the highest point ever. So it’s a great organization. And we — we owe a lot to the Secretary General. He’s been fantastic. He’s done, really, a fantastic job. We think it’ll be up — within three years, it will be up to $400 billion more. And — but, in the meantime, these are the countries. I said, “I want to take the 2 percenters to lunch.” We call them, affectionately, “Those 2 percenters.” But I want to take them to lunch. So this is a lunch that’s on me. And I want to thank you all. And if you’d like to say something to the press, you can. But, in the meantime, I’ll ask our great Secretary General to say a few words. Well, thank you. Great job you’re doing. Thank you very much. How about Poland? Would you like to say something representing the group? Thank you. It is, indeed. I think he would get fantastic television ratings with that — with the way he made that presentation. How about my friend? You want to say something? They will, actually. And if they don’t, we’ll get them on trade. One way or the other, they’re paying, folks — that, I can tell you. Thank you all very much. Appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you very much. Q Just to clarify, sir, did you cancel the news conference? You’re going to — you’re still going to do it? Say it, Steven? Q Did you cancel the news conference? We weren’t clear. Oh, yeah, I’ll cancel the news — I’ve done so many. And I’m doing, I think, two more. We’re meeting with Italy and Denmark. So, I’m doing two more. I think that’s enough. There would be nothing to say. So I won’t be — you’ll let the word out. We’re doing — but we are doing Denmark and Italy right after this. So we’re staying for two more bilats, and the press will be invited, okay? END 2:27 P.M. GMT
Well, thank you very much. My fellow Americans, I greet you this morning from the White House to announce a major breakthrough toward achieving a better future for Syria and for the Middle East. It’s been a long time. Over the last five days, you have seen that a ceasefire that we established along Syria’s border has held, and it’s held very well, beyond most expectations. Early this morning, the government of Turkey informed my administration that they would be stopping combat and their offensive in Syria, and making the ceasefire permanent. And it will indeed be permanent. However you would also define the word “permanent” in that part of the world as somewhat questionable, we all understand that. But I do believe it will be permanent. I have therefore instructed the Secretary of the Treasury to lift all sanctions imposed on October 14th in response to Turkey’s original offensive moves against the Kurds in Syria’s northeast border region. So the sanctions will be lifted unless something happens that we’re not happy with. This was an outcome created by us, the United States, and nobody else, no other nation. Very simple. And we’re willing to take blame, and we’re also willing to take credit. This is something they’ve been trying to do for many, many decades. Since then, others have come out to help, and we welcome them to do so. Other countries have stepped forward, they want to help, and we think that’s great. The nations in the region must ultimately take on the responsibility of helping Turkey and Syria police their border. We want other nations to get involved. We’ve secured the oil, and, therefore, a small number of U.S. troops will remain in the area where they have the oil. And we’re going to be protecting it, and we’ll be deciding what we’re going to do with it in the future. In any event, by the moves that we’ve made, we are achieving a much more peaceful and stable area between Turkey and Syria, including a 20-mile-wide safe zone. An interesting term, “safe zone.” That’s the term we’re using it. Hopefully, that zone will become safe. Thousands and thousands of people have been killed in that zone over the years. But it’s been sought for many, many decades, and I think we have something that’s going to be strong and hold up. Turkey, Syria, and all forms of the Kurds, have been fighting for centuries. We have done them a great service, and we’ve done a great job for all of them. And now we’re getting out. A long time. We were supposed to be there for 30 days; that was almost 10 years ago. So we’re there for 30 days, and now we’re leaving. It was supposed to be a very quick hit and let’s get out. And it was a quick hit, except they stayed for almost 10 years. Let someone else fight over this long-bloodstained sand. I want to thank Vice President Pence and Secretary of State Pompeo for leading the American delegation so successfully to Turkey several days ago, along with National Security Advisor O’Brien. I want to thank them very much. The American delegation negotiated the original five-day ceasefire that ended Kurdish fighters to safely leave. It just got them to a point where, frankly, they were able. It enabled them to get out, to go and move, really, just a few miles in a slightly different direction. So this enabled them to do so. Countless lives are now being saved as a result of our negotiation with Turkey — an outcome reached without spilling one drop of American blood. No injuries. Nobody shot, nobody killed. I have just spoken to General Mazloum, a wonderful man, the Commander-in-Chief of the SDF Kurds. And he was extremely thankful for what the United States has done. Could not have been more thankful. General Mazloum has assured me that ISIS is under very, very strict lock and key, and the detention facilities are being strongly maintained. There were a few that got out — a small number, relatively speaking — and they’ve been largely recaptured. I’m also sure that he will be issuing his own statement very shortly. We had a great talk. But we’ve saved the lives of many, many Kurds. He understands that. The war was going to be vicious and probably not very long. And I’m very happy to have been involved in it, as are our Vice President, our Secretary of State, and all of the other people on our team. By getting that ceasefire to stick, we’ve done something that’s very, very special. But by getting the ceasefire after a tremendous amount of really tough war for a very short period of days, that is something very special. Our troops are safe, and the pain and suffering of the three-day fight that occurred was directly responsible for our ability to make an agreement with Turkey and the Kurds that could never have been made without this short-term outburst. Should Turkey fail to honor its obligations, including the protection of religious and ethnic minorities — which I truly believe they will do — we reserve the right to re-impose crippling sanctions, including substantially increased tariffs on steel and all other products coming out of Turkey. We are now an economic powerhouse like never before, and, very importantly, like no other. Our economic might is stronger than it’s ever been, and our competitors are not doing very well. We also expect Turkey to abide by its commitment regarding ISIS. As a backup to the Kurds watching over them, should something happen, Turkey is there to grab them. Further, we implore European countries to come and take those fighters that the U.S. captured and bring them back to their countries for incarceration and for trial. Until just recently, Europe has been very unresponsive in doing what they should have been doing for a long time. Now is their chance to finally act. American forces defeated 100 percent of the ISIS caliphate during the last two years. We thank the Syrian Democratic Forces for their sacrifices in this effort. They’ve been terrific. Now Turkey, Syria, and others in the region must work to ensure that ISIS does not regain any territory. It’s their neighborhood; they have to maintain it. They have to take care of it. There were some political pundits who responded to Turkey’s offensive in Syria by calling for yet another American military intervention. I don’t think so. But halting the incursion by military force would have required deploying tens of thousands of American troops against Turkey — a NATO Ally and a country the United States has developed a very good relationship with, including President Erdoğan. The same people that I watched and read — giving me and the United States advice — were the people that I have been watching and reading for many years. They are the ones that got us into the Middle East mess but never had the vision or the courage to get us out. They just talk. How many Americans must die in the Middle East in the midst of these ancient sectarian and tribal conflicts? After all of the precious blood and treasure America has poured into the deserts of the Middle East, I am committed to pursuing a different course — one that leads to victory for America. Through much work, we have done things that everybody said couldn’t be done. Today’s announcement validates our course of action with Turkey that only a couple of weeks ago were scorned, and now people are saying, “Wow. What a great outcome. Congratulations.” It’s too early to me to be congratulated, but we’ve done a good job. We’ve saved a lot of lives. Most importantly, we have avoided another costly military intervention that could’ve led to disastrous, far-reaching consequences. Many thousands of people could’ve been killed. The last administration said, “Assad must go.” They could’ve easily produced that outcome, but they didn’t. In fact, they drew a very powerful red line in the sand — you all remember, the red line in the sand — when children were gassed and killed, but then did not honor their commitment as other children died in the same horrible manner. But I did honor my commitments with 58 Tomahawks. Eight long years after President Obama’s ill-fated push at regime change, U.S. troops are still on the ground in Syria. More than half a million people are dead, hundreds of thousands are terribly injured, and millions more Syrians are displaced. It really is a nightmare of misery. Across the Middle East, we have seen anguish on a colossal scale. We have spent $8 trillion on wars in the Middle East, never really wanting to win those wars. But after all that money was spent and all of those lives lost, the young men and women gravely wounded — so many — the Middle East is less safe, less stable, and less secure than before these conflicts began. The same people pushing for these wars are often the ones demanding America open its doors to unlimited migration from war-torn regions, importing the terrorism and the threat of terrorism right to our own shores. But not anymore. My administration understands that immigration security is national security. As a candidate for President, I made clear that we needed a new approach to American foreign policy, one guided not by ideology, but by experience, history, and a realistic understanding of the world. We are building up America’s military might like never before, investing $2.5 trillion since my election. But we will not be depleted. We will not happen again. It will not be allowed to happen again, where our military is depleted, fighting in areas of the world where we shouldn’t be. When we commit American troops to battle, we must do so only when a vital national interest is at stake, and when we have a clear objective, a plan for victory, and a path out of conflict. That’s what we have to have. We need a plan of victory. We will only win. Our whole basis has to be the right plan, and then we will only win. Nobody can beat us. Nobody can beat us. I want to again thank everyone on the American team who helped achieve the ceasefire in Syria, saved so many lives, along with President Erdoğan of Turkey — a man I’ve gotten to know very well and a man who loves his country. And, in his mind, he’s doing the right thing for his country, and we may be meeting in the very near future. I also want to thank General Mazloum for his understanding and for his great strength and for his incredible words today to me — but me just as a representative of the United States — because he knows that we saved tens of thousands of Kurds. And we’re not talking in the long term, we’re talking in the short term. We’re talking something that was going on immediately and something, frankly, that was planned for a long time. The job of our military is not to police the world. Other nations must step up and do their fair share. That hasn’t taken place. Today’s breakthrough is a critical step in that direction. Thank you all very much, and God bless America. Thank you. Thank you. END 11:56 A.M. EDT
So, we just made what, I guess, is one of the biggest deals that’s been made in a long time, with China. The Vice Premier has just left my office. We have a great deal. We’re papering it now. Over the next three or four or five weeks, hopefully it’ll get finished. A tremendous benefit to our farmers, technology, and many other things — the banking industry, financial services. And, I guess, by now, you know pretty much we’ve had a very, very good couple of days with China. And it looks like that deal is very much on it’s on way. It’ll be the largest deal ever made for farmers. We’re talking about a $40 to $50 billion purchase and other things. I mean, it’s an incredible deal for farmers. I think they’ll have to go out and buy more land and buy bigger tractors. So, we’ll hopefully get that done pretty quickly. Q Mr. President, you have — you have been bombed today. Our Special Forces were bombed by the Turks. Are we going to take sanctions against the Turks? Well, we’ll take a look at it. We’ll take a look at it. Q President Trump, sir. Thank you, sir. On the farmers, on that deal, is this a one-year deal or have they agreed to multi-year purchases in ag? This will go a long time into the future. This a buy. This is a very big buy. It’s two years, but it’ll go a long time into the future. The biggest deal made was $16 billion and this could be $50 . So this is many times more, many times bigger than any deal ever made for the farmers. Q And do you expect them to keep their word this time? Say it. Q Do you trust them to keep their word this time on the purchases? Oh, they’ll keep their word. China is going to keep their word. They want to make the deal. They’re going to keep their word. Q President Trump, is Rudy Giuliani still your personal attorney? Is Rudy Giuliani still your personal attorney? Well, I don’t know. I haven’t spoken to Rudy. I spoke to him yesterday, briefly. He’s a very good attorney, and he has been my attorney. Yeah, sure. Steve. Q A question on China. Are you prepared to take Huawei off of the entity list in a later phase? Well, we’re looking at it. We didn’t discuss that, Steve, on this deal — Huawei. We didn’t discuss it, having to do with phase one. This is phase one of an either phase two or phase three deal. So we haven’t discussed Huawei, relative to this deal. So basically, the status will remain the same. Q Until when? Q On Maria Yovanovitch, sir. On Maria Yovanovitch — did you put pressure to have her fire the Ambassador to Ukraine — Yovanovitch? Well, she may be a wonderful woman. I don’t know her — Q Did you pressure them? — but she may be very much a wonderful woman. If you remember the phone call I had with the President — the new President — he didn’t speak favorably. But I just don’t know her. She may be a wonderful woman. Q If the Chinese make lifting Huawei’s restrictions — taking Huawei off the blacklist — a condition of the phase two deal, would you consider doing that? Well, I’m not going to talk about it now, because we’re just starting the negotiation of phase two. We’ll actually begin as soon as we’re finished papering phase one. But phase one, it’s one of the biggest deals ever made — and unbelievable for technology, unbelievable for the banking industry and services, and for the farmers. It’s — there’s never been anything like it. Q What do you think about Huawei? Well, we’re going to see what happens. We’re going to be discussing that in phase two. Q Do you want to fire the whistleblower? Who? Q Do you want to fire the whistleblower? Well, the whistleblower has been very inaccurate. The whistleblower — I don’t know what kind of a whistleblower — Q Then why don’t you fire the whistleblower? The whistleblower reported a totally different conversation than I had. I released a transcript of my conversation — an exact transcript. And the whistleblower didn’t say that. The whistleblower is either saying untruths, okay? Or he didn’t know. Or he’s making up a story, like Schiff did. Schiff made up a story. Because when Schiff read what I actually said, he said, “I can’t say this because he did nothing wrong.” So Schiff went out and he made up a lie. He made up a — it was a fraudulent story. You know that. You know that better than anybody. You’re a good lawyer. And, frankly, he went out. He made up a fraudulent story. He then went before the U.S. Congress and the American people, and he reported a fraudulent story. Now, Schiff — something should happen to Schiff for that. He shouldn’t have immunity for that. Why should Schiff be given immunity when he goes out and he says a story about the President of the United States — what the President said — and it bears no relationship? In fact, every word was different. And I’ll tell you what: I can’t believe that a congressman could be that dishonest and can have immunity from that. Steve. Q I just have a question about Turkey. Are you — how serious are you about being a mediator between the Kurds and the Turks? So, Turkey and the Kurds have been fighting for hundreds of years. We are out of there. But we have a tremendous financial strength, which I’ve helped a lot with, because our country has become much stronger since I’ve been President, by many trillions of dollars. And if Turkey does something that they shouldn’t be doing, we will put on sanctions the likes of which very few countries have ever seen before. David. Q Mr. President, did you or your administration pressure Fox News to get rid of Shepard Smith? No, I don’t know. Is he leaving? Q He’s leaving. Oh, that’s a shame. Q Then why did Bill Barr meet with Rupert Murdock the other night? That I don’t know. Wait — did I hear Shepard Smith is leaving? Q Yes. Is he leaving because of bad ratings? Q You’d have to ask him. Tell me. I don’t know. He has terrible ratings. Is he leaving because of his ratings? Q You have to ask him. I mean, if he’s leaving, I assume he is leaving because he had bad ratings. Q But you didn’t put any pressure on anybody? He had the worst ratings on Fox, so there’s a reason — why is Shepard Smith leaving? Q You’d have to ask him, Mr. President. Well, I wish him well. Q The Attornery General — the Attorney General meeting with Rupert — I wish — I wish Shepard Smith well. Q Mr. President, why haven’t you asked your Justice Department to investigate Hunter Biden if he has acted so improperly? I think Hunter Biden is a disgrace. You know, the number-one T-shirt selling right now is, “Where’s Hunter?” I came up with that one last night. And, by the way, we had a record-setting — last night, as you saw — rally. That was a rally like few other rallies. And now I’m going to Louisiana. And we’re taking the Little League World Champions — I think World Champions. And they’re going to be on the plane. They’re from Louisiana. And they’re flying with me. We just had pictures in the White House. Q Will you ask your Justice Department to investigate Hunter Biden then? I haven’t asked that, no. But a lot of people should be asking, perhaps. I have not asked it. Hunter Biden walked away with a billion and a half dollars from China, $168,000 a month from Ukraine — supposedly a $3 million payment from Ukraine. Have I asked? No. But I can’t imagine that somebody isn’t asking. Q President Trump, your letter to Nancy Pelosi does not seem to be working. Many people are testifying. Do you need a new legal strategy? The whole thing that they’re doing is a hoax to try and win an election that they’re not going to win in 2020. You look at the phone conversation I had with the President of Ukraine; it was perfect. The only thing that wasn’t perfect was the fraud that was committed on the American people in Congress when Schiff got up. And instead of reading what was said, word-for-word, exact — when Schiff got up and he lied and he defrauded the American public by making up a conversation. He made it up. So let me just tell you that the whole — this whole Ukraine story is a hoax. And yesterday — I know you don’t like to report it, but I might as well say it: The President of Ukraine said loud and clear that the conversation was absolutely a perfect conversation, that there was no problem with it whatsoever. Q Mr. President, on Turkey, one detail — on Turkey, sir. You’ve said many times the sanctions could kick in if Turkey does something they shouldn’t do. The what? Q What is the red line Turkey should not cross to avoid sanctions? Well, we’ll see. Q Like what? An example. We’ll see. We have a good relationship with Turkey. They’re a NATO partner. We do a lot of trade with Turkey. But we don’t want them killing a lot of people. And, you know, we have been out of there. We beat ISIS. We knocked the hell out of them. We took a hundred percent of the caliphate. We did our job. But we have a lot of power, financially. And I’ve built something here. Over the last three and a half years, if you take a look — take a look at what’s been happening to the United States over the last almost three years. You take a look at the economic power that we’ve created. We’ve gone up — in fact, the Vice Premier of China just said — we’ve gone up trillions of dollars. China has gone down trillions of dollars. If we have to use sanctions, we will on Turkey. Q Mr. President, why are you sending more troops to Saudi Arabia when you just said it’s a mistake to be in the Middle East? So we’re sending more troops to Saudi Arabia. Saudi Arabia is a very good ally, from the standpoint that we get along with them very well — a very important player in the Middle East. The relationship has been very good. And they buy hundreds of billions of dollars’ worth of merchandise from us, not only military equipment. In military equipment, about $110 billion. It’s millions of jobs. Now, with that being said, we are sending troops and other things to the Middle East to help Saudi Arabia. But are you ready? Saudi Arabia, at my request, has agreed to pay us for everything we’re doing. That’s a first. But Saudi Arabia — and other countries, too, now — but Saudi Arabia has agreed to pay us for everything we’re doing to help them. And we appreciate that. Q Mr. President, about your tax returns. You lost in court today about your tax returns — It’s all right. Q If Pelosi starts impeachment, will you still object? Q Three court losses today. Any — Say it? Q Three court losses today. Any reaction to that? What? Q On immigration and taxes, turning over your taxes to — We lost immigration? I haven’t heard that. We’ll win. We’ll turn — we’ll — you know how many cases I’ve lost and then we win? Okay, remember they said I lost ban — the travel ban? And then they said I lost it again, and then I ended up winning it. So, I’ve — I’ve had a great — I’ve had a great track record. And right now, within a couple of weeks, we will have 160 judges. And within a couple of months, we’ll have 182 federal judges. And we are breaking records like nobody has ever seen in that regard, as you know. Q Do you support administration officials — Do you agree? Do you agree? A hundred and eighty-two. Do you agree? Q Do you support administration officials — You got to say yes. Q — testifying under subpoena? Your father would say yes. Q You agreed to hold off on the tariff increase next week, correct? We’re going to hold off on the 5 percent increase from 25 to 30 . Q And what specific concessions did you get from the Chinese in exchange for that? Well, if you look at the deal, the deal is so incredible. The deal is a great deal. And I have to say it again: The farmers — it’s going to be $50 billion dollars’ worth of purchase. The most they’ve ever done was $16 . So the farmers in Iowa, Nebraska, and all of these other great states that I love and that obviously like me a lot, too, they’re going to have to buy more land fast and bigger tractors or they’re not going to be able to keep up with the order. Also, China, over the last two weeks, as you’ve probably seen, has been buying a lot of farm product. A lot of farm product. So, we’re agreeing not to put that additional increase. So we’re going to get 25 percent. And when the increase kicks in on October 15th, on the 25 to 30 , we’re not going to charge that. That’s going to be held in abeyance, subject to the final deal. Q Any other concessions from the Chinese, other than agriculture? Well, it’s basically everything I said. I don’t have to go through it. But tremendous for banking, tremendous for technology. Beyond tremendous for the American farmer and rancher. Tremendous deal. Have a good time. See you in Louisiana. We’re going — we’re going now — we’re going now to Louisiana. We’re going to have a great rally. I hope you’re going to come. Okay? END 4:59 P.M. EDT
Thank you very much. Thank you. Well, thank you all for being here. We’ve had a tremendous three days in New York, at the United Nations. I want to thank the Secretary-General. It’s been really incredible what’s been taking place. And he’s been a fantastic host to a lot of countries. The meetings I had on a bilat, or close, were pretty staggering. I think we set a new record, but you’ll have to check that out. The — we met very, very — for pretty extended periods of time, either two and two, one on one, or just about at that level with Pakistan, Poland, New Zealand, Singapore, Egypt, South Korea, United Kingdom, India, Iraq, Argentina, Germany, Brazil, France, Japan, Ukraine, Honduras, El Salvador, Saudi Arabia, Jordan, Bahrain, Kuwait, Qatar, Oman, UAE, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, and Peru. Other than that, we weren’t too busy over the last three days. And, unfortunately, the press doesn’t even cover it. You know, we have — we’ve made some fantastic deals, like with Japan. For farmers, we have a tremendous trade deal with Japan. And that doesn’t get covered because you waste your time on nonsense. The PMI manufacturers’ index has gone substantially up, which was an incredible — Larry Kudlow, wherever you may be — Larry, please stand up. He just gave me these numbers. And existing new home sales are through the roof. Just came out. Oil prices have gone down ever since the Saudi Arabia incident, and they’ve gone down very substantially. So, we have plenty of oil. But those numbers were surprising to you, Larry. And the extent of the increase. Is that a correct statement? So thank you, Larry Kudlow. We think we’ll make this little announcement to you because — important. You know the so-called whistleblower? The one that didn’t have any first-class, or first-rate, or second-tier information, from what I understand. You’ll have to figure that out for yourself. But I’ve spoken with Leader Kevin McCarthy and the Republicans — many of them — and we were going to do this anyway, but I’ve informed them — all of the House members — that I fully support transparency on the so-called whistleblower information, even though it was supposedly second-hand information, which is sort of interesting. And other things have come out about the whistleblower that are also maybe even more interesting. But also insist on transparency from Joe Biden and his son Hunter on the millions of dollars that have been quickly and easily taken out of Ukraine and China. Millions of dollars. Millions and millions of dollars taken out very rapidly while he was Vice President. And I think they should have transparency for that. I’ve informed the Leader about that. And additionally, I demand transparency from Democrats who went to Ukraine and attempted to force the new President, who I met and is an outstanding person. I just met a little while ago; some of you were there. I think he’s going to be outstanding. He got elected on the basis of corruption. He wants to end corruption in Ukraine, and I think that’s great. But they went there and they wanted to force the new President to do things that they wanted under the form of political threat. They threatened him if he didn’t do things. Now, that’s what they’re accusing me of, but I didn’t do it. I didn’t threaten anybody. In fact, the press was asking questions of the President of Ukraine. And he said, “No pressure.” I used the word “pressure.” I think he used the word “push,” but he meant pressure, but it’s the same thing. No push, no pressure, no nothing. It’s all a hoax, folks. It’s all a big hoax. And the sad thing about this hoax is that we work so hard with all of these countries — and I mean really hard. This has been — I’ve been up from early in the morning to late in the evening, and meeting with different countries all for the good of our country, and the press doesn’t even cover all of this. And it’s disappearing — it’s really disappointing also to those countries that are with us and spend so much time with us. So, we want transparency. We’ve informed Kevin McCarthy about transparency. And we said, “Vote for it.” So I think you’ll have close to 100 percent of the Republican votes, I hope. And it got almost no attention, but in May, CNN reported that Senators Robert Menendez, Richard Durbin, and Patrick Leahy wrote a letter to Ukraine’s Prosecutor General expressing concern at the closing of four investigations they said were “critical.” In the letter, they implied that their support for U.S. assistance to Ukraine was at stake and that if they didn’t do the right thing, they wouldn’t get any assistance. Gee, doesn’t that sound familiar? Doesn’t that sound familiar? And Chris Murphy — who I’ve been dealing with on guns — you know, so nice. He’s always, “Oh, no, we want to work it out. We want to work it out.” But they’re too busy wasting their time on the witch hunt. So, Senator Chris Murphy literally threatened the President of Ukraine that, if he doesn’t do things right, they won’t have Democrat support in Congress. So you’re going to look all of this up. One other thing — I’m just going off of certain notes and elements of what we’ve been doing over the last three days, but this just came up a few minutes ago: The “Amazon-Washington Post” just put out a fake article that Acting Director of National Intelligence, Joseph Maguire — who I’ve gotten to know, and he’s a tough cookie — and I was surprised; I was shocked to hear this — was going to quit, blaming the White House for something that they wouldn’t let him talk openly, freely. And I was shocked because I know Joe, and he’s tough. A tough guy. And I was really surprised to hear he was going to quit. Before I could even either talk to him or talk to anybody else, he put out a statement — I didn’t speak to Joe yet — but he said, “At no time have I considered resigning my position.” In other words, the story in the Washington Post was a fake. “At no time have I considered resigning my position since assuming this role on August 16, 2019. I have never quit anything in my life, and I am not going to start now. I’m committed to leading the intelligence community to address the diverse and complex threats facing our nation.” That’s from the Acting Director of National Intelligence, a very good man, Joseph Maguire. So we’re having a great period of time. Our country is the strongest it’s ever been economically. Our numbers are phenomenal. Wilbur, thank you. And Larry. Everybody. The numbers are phenomenal. Our economy is the strongest in the world. We’re the largest economy in the world. Had my opponent won, we would be second right now because China was catching us so rapidly, we would’ve been second by this time. And unless somebody does a very poor job as President, we’re going to be first for a long way, because we’ve picked up trillions and trillions of dollars in value and worth of our country, and China has lost trillions and trillions of dollars, and millions of jobs, and their supply chain. And they want to make a deal. This year, America came to the United Nations stronger than we have ever been before: Since my election, the United States has not only brought our economy to a level that we have never seen, the most jobs that we’ve ever had — you know you’ve heard me say it many times — African American, Asian American, Hispanic American, the best unemployment numbers we’ve ever had. And the most and best employment numbers: 160 million — very close to that number — in jobs. We’ve never been anywhere close. Wages are up, and inequality is down. Something that people don’t like writing about. But wages are up. I used to speak during the campaign, and I’d talk about wages where people were making less money three years ago than they were making 21 years, 22 years ago, and they’d have two jobs and three jobs. When I say “three years ago,” I’m talking into the area sometime prior to the election. And they were doing very badly. And now, for the first time in many years, wages are up and employment is up, and unemployment is down. And it’s a beautiful thing to watch. In a week of active and ambitious diplomacy here at the United Nations, America renewed our friendships. We advanced our values greatly and made clear to everyone that the United States will always defend our citizens to promote prosperity. I met with Prime Minister Boris Johnson, at length, of the United Kingdom, continuing our discussions on a magnificent, new bilateral trade deal. So we’ll see what happens with respect to Brexit, but I suspect we’ll have a fantastic deal with the UK. It should be much bigger than it has been over the last number of years. Over the last 20 years, frankly. It should be a much bigger deal. That’s true with many countries. We’re going to have much bigger trade deals with a lot of countries that have an opportunity to come. And they all want to do business with the United States, especially now. Earlier today, I stood alongside Prime Minister Abe of Japan — a friend of mine, a great gentleman. Had a great reelection. And we signed a terrific new trade deal, which tremendously helps our farmers and ranchers, and technology. The technology companies are really big beneficiaries. We also held very productive conversations with leaders of Pakistan, India. And many other nations are achieving stronger ties of fair and reciprocal trade. And with respect to Pakistan and India, we talked about Kashmir. And whatever help I can be, I said — I offered, whether it’s arbitration or mediation, or whatever it has to be, I’ll do whatever I can. Because they’re at very serious odds right now, and hopefully that’ll get better. You look at the two gentlemen heading those two countries — two good friends of mine — I said, “Fellas, work it out. Just work it out.” Those are two nuclear countries. They’ve got to work it out. This week, we also made incredible strides on national security with President Duda of Poland. We signed a joint declaration advancing defense cooperation. And, crucially, Poland has agreed to put up 100 percent of the money — something I don’t think you’ve ever heard said before. But they’re going to put up 100 percent of the money, of hosting additional U.S. military personnel that we’ll be taking from various other countries. We won’t have more over; we’ll have — we’ll be moving them around. Poland is building us phenomenal new facilities. They’re spending everything, and they’re going to really do a job. But we’ll be moving a few thousand soldiers, and Poland will be paying that for it. Together with Prime Minister Lee of Singapore, I signed an important agreement extending our defense cooperation. This hasn’t been changed in many years. Then, yesterday, I met with prospective members of the Middle East Strategic Alliance, which is a group that I know very well; I know all of them. And through this effort, the nations of the Middle East are taking more responsibility for securing their own future and their own neighborhood. And they’re also reimbursing us and paying us for a lot of the military work that we incredibly do. But because we’re now independent, energy-wise — we’re energy independent — we have very few boats going over the Middle East. We used to have them going through the Straits all the time. And you probably noticed that, every once in a while, they go after somebody else’s. They haven’t gone after ours yet. If they do, they’ve get big problems. But we have very few boats going over there. They were saying the other day, they’ve never attacked an American boat, and I’m not asking for trouble. But if they do, they know they have far bigger trouble. But then they said, “But, you know, we don’t see very many American boats over here anymore.” This week also brought extraordinary progress to nations of our own hemisphere. In recent days, we’ve achieved historic asylum cooperation agreements with El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras. We were with El Salvador today. A great young gentleman became the President. He’s strong and tough, and he’s taking care of crime. He was really something today. I was very impressed with him. And likewise with Honduras, who we met. We signed a cooperation agreement with both, and also with Guatemala. We’re working with our partners in Central America to ensure that asylum-seekers can pursue relief as close to their home countries as possible. That’ll make a tremendous difference at our southern border. And Mexico — I have to say, President Lopez Obrador has been outstanding — an outstanding partner. And he’s doing a great job in Mexico. The cartels are way down, and the numbers — our Secretary is here now — the numbers are way down. Way, way down. And we’re doing that without the help of Congress, meaning the Democrats in Congress who won’t give us a single vote to take care of loopholes. We have loopholes that are so horrible, and it would be so easy to fix. And they know they should be fixed but they don’t want to do because they don’t want to give Trump any credit because it’s all about the election. That’s all they care about. They don’t care about our country; they care about the election. And the sad part is, with all of the tremendous work that we’ve done this weekend — whether it’s Secretary Mnuchin or Secretary Pompeo, who had some outstanding, outstanding meetings — with all of this tremendous work that we’ve done, the press doesn’t even cover it. And the Democrats did this hoax during the United Nations week. It was perfect. Because this way, it takes away from these tremendous achievements that we’re taking care of doing, that we’re involved in in New York City, at the United Nations. So that was all planned, like everything else. It was all planned. And the witch hunt continues, but they’re getting hit hard in this witch hunt, because when they look at the information, it’s a joke. Impeachment? For that? When you have a wonderful meeting, or you have a wonderful phone conversation? I think you should ask. We actually — you know, that was the second conversation. I think you should ask for the first conversation also. I can’t believe they haven’t, although I heard there’s a — there’s a rumor out they want the first conversation. It was beautiful. It was just a perfect conversation. But I think you should do that. I think you should do, and I think you should ask for VP Pence’s conversation because he had a couple conversations also. I can save you a lot of time. They’re all perfect. Nothing was mentioned of any import other than congratulations. But the word is that they’re going to ask for the first phone conversation. You can have it anytime you need it. And also Mike Pence’s conversations, which were, I think, one or two of them. They were perfect. They were all perfect. It’s very sad what the Democrats are doing to this country. They’re dividing. They’re belittling. They’re demeaning our country. So many leaders came up to me today and they said, “Sir, what you go through, no President has ever gone through. And it’s so bad for your country.” People laugh at the stupidity of what they’ve asked for. And here we could do asylum. We could do all of these different things so easily. We could do asylum quickly. We could do loopholes; get rid of them. Instead, we actually made deals with Mexico and with Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras. And we’re doing it with them instead of with our Congress, but we’re doing it. We get it done. The wall is being built, by the way. It got little coverage. I went to the border. It’s going up in New Mexico. It’s going up in Arizona. It’s going up in California, believe it or not. They really wanted that wall in California, in San Diego. As soon as it was completed, they said, “We don’t want a wall.” They were begging me for a wall. I should take it out and move it to another location. We were with the Governor — spoke to him a lot — but the Governor of Texas, Lieutenant Governor of Texas, Attorney General of Texas, the senators of Texas — Cornyn, Ted Cruz. And we’re building an incredible wall. That’s going to — number one, it’s going to look great. It’s going to be virtually impossible to cross unless you’re one hell of a mountain climber. It’s very tough. It’s going to be very tough to get people and drugs over those walls, because they’re the real deal. I went to the Secretary of Homeland security, and he got all his people together. I said, “Give me four walls — your optimum. Every single thing included.” And they give me 20 percent less, 20 percent less, and 20 percent less — meaning, less cost. They came back, they said, “This is the wall, sir. This would be the best.” We have the panels on top, which are anti-climb panels. I don’t know if you noticed the steel on top. We have a different design for a different area, but this anti-climb is very tough. They’ve — we had people going out and real climbers telling us which is the toughest to climb. But these are anti-climb panels. Very tough to get across. And the wall is going up, many miles a week. And we hope to have over 400, but maybe as much as 500 miles, which we’ll pretty much do it because you have a lot of natural barriers; you have mountains, you have really rough rivers. You have some really rough land that you can’t cross very easily. So they serve as their natural walls. But we — we’ll have, we think, over 400, but we could even have 500 miles. To combat the malice, corruption of both the Venezuelan and Iranian dictatorships, today I issued proclamations suspending the entry into the United States of senior regime officials and their families. And further, to promote American values, on Monday I was proud to be the first President in history to host a meeting at the United Nations — I’m so surprised; first President for this. I can’t believe that I’m first. I spoke to Franklin Graham about that. I can’t believe it. — at the United Nations, on protecting religious freedom and liberty for people around the world. While some partisans and unelected bureaucrats in Washington may choose to fight every day against the interests and beliefs of the American people, my administration is standing up for the American people like no administration has in many, many years. You forgot the American people. You totally forgot the American people. This week, every — every week, I really can say — of my presidency, we’re standing up for American prosperity, American security, and the American way of life. And together, with our friends and partners, we’re building a more peaceful, prosperous, and promising future. We have a tremendous relationship now with a lot of nations that are very happy with what’s going on, and that includes in South America, where they’ve been so helpful, where nobody thought this would be possible. The relationship with Mexico is an example, or El Salvador, or Honduras, or Guatemala. Nobody even knew about it. Yet, we sent them hundreds of millions of dollars, and all we got back was caravans of people pouring in. We had tremendous — we had tremendous — it was terrible. And we’ve got that stopped, and the countries are now helping us. And we stopped those payments, by the way. We don’t pay those countries that money anymore. But I will tell you, if they’re as good as they seem to be — they’re really doing a job on crime and stopping the wrong people from leaving and coming to the United States — we’ll be helping them a lot with economic development projects and other things. So, with that, we had a tremendous three days. It was beautiful to see. Made a lot of new friends. I read you a list of all the countries I saw pretty much one on one. And it’s been very busy, but it’s been very, very fruitful. So we could take a couple of questions. I’d love some questions on some of the things that we accomplished at UNGA, instead of the witch hunt — the phony witch hunt questions, which I know that’s what you want to ask because it’s probably better for you, but it’s not better for the country. So maybe we’ll take a few — a few questions. Please. Q Thank you, Mr. President. You suggested that you didn’t do anything wrong in the course of your conversations with the Ukrainian President. But can you explain to the American people why it is appropriate for an American President to ask a foreign leader for information about a political rival, and what you would have said if you discovered that Barack Obama perhaps had asked a foreign leader for information about you before your campaign for the presidency? Yeah. Well, that’s what he did, isn’t it, really? When you think about it. Look, that whole witch hunt was started, and hopefully that’ll all come out. But there’s been some fantastic books written that just came out — whether you will look at Gregg Jarrett, or McCarthy’s book that just — just came out recently, and so many other books. And a lot of books are coming out. When you start reading those books, you see what they did to us. What they’ve done to this country is a disgrace. They’ve hurt this country very badly. And no other President should have to go through what I’ve gone through. The President — the new President of Ukraine is looking to stop corruption. There’s a lot of corruption going on, and there was corruption. I just told you about senators that threatened him with votes and no money coming into Ukraine if they do things. That’s really what people are trying to say that I did, but the only difference is I didn’t do it. You take a look at that call; it was perfect. I didn’t do it. There was no quid pro quo, but there was with Biden and there was with these senators. And they threatened. They said, “You do this, you do that. We’re not going to give you votes.” That’s — that’s the real deal. So we have an honest group of people that have been maligned. And, you know, it’s — a lot of people say I’ll do even better. I’m very happy. Yesterday, I guess we had a 53 poll, and a lot of people say add 10 points to anything. Anybody voting for Trump, you can add — anytime you get a poll, you can add 10 points or 7 points or 6 points. Take it any way you want. But I don’t know if I consider that to be a compliment, but in one way it is a compliment. And I guess that’s what happened in the last election: Far more people came to vote than anybody thought possible. Q So why should the American people then be comfortable with an American President asking a foreign leader for information about an American citizen? Well, I think you can look at your senators and you can look at Biden, and you can look at all these other people. But what we’re looking for is corruption. An investigation started, called the “Russian witch hunt,” affectionately. And it was a total phony scam. It was set up by people within the government to try and stop somebody from getting elected. And after that person — namely, me — won, and convincingly won at 306 to 223 in the Electoral College — which, by the way, when you run a race, if you’re running electoral — you know, if you go by the College, Electoral College, that’s a much different race than running popular vote. And it’s like the hundred-yard dash or the mile. You train differently. And I can’t help it that my opponent didn’t go to Wisconsin and should have gone much more to Michigan and Pennsylvania and other places. But that’s the way it is. We won election, convincingly. Convincingly. And then you had the text message on, “Well, if she doesn’t win, we’ve got an insurance policy.” How bad was that? You know the insurance policy? That’s sort of what has been taking place over the last number of years — the insurance policy. No, there are a lot of very dishonest people. We’re the ones that played it straight. And you know what? The millions of people out there that are looking at what’s going on — those people understand it. They see it. And they think it’s disgusting. And our people are being hurt, and our country is being hurt. When Nancy Pelosi allows her position to be taken over by radical far-left socialists, or worse, that’s pretty bad. That’s pretty bad — especially when the senators and all of these other people have actually done what they’re accusing me of doing, which I didn’t do. I’m going to have Mike Pompeo say a couple of words. I’m going to have Steve Mnuchin say a couple of words. And then we’ll do a couple of more questions. Thank you. Okay. Go ahead, please. Q Thank you. Kristina Partsinevelos, Fox Business. I want to focus on markets, because I’ll leave it to everybody else to talk about impeachment. Markets reacted positively after you spoke about China, and that it would happen sooner than — rather than unexpectedly. Yet, you have the Foreign Minister of China saying that they have no intention of, you know, unseating the United States. And yet, they’re investing heavily in infrastructure and military. Not anymore, maybe. Q But what — what is different this time, though? And maybe they just say that, Kristina. Q What is different this time, though? The fact that you’re saying it’s progressing. Oh, I just think it’s progressing. I think they want to make a deal. They’re losing their supply chain. You know, it’s getting killed. Q Do you have something specific? Well, I don’t want to say that. But I can tell you that these two men — and, in this case, more specifically, Steve, we’re having some very good conversations. And I guess it’s next week that a group is coming in and the week after. So we have a lot of — we have a lot of talks going on, and also by telephone. They want to make a deal. And you know why they want to make a deal? Because they’re losing their jobs, and because their supply chain is going to hell. And companies are moving out of China, and they’re moving to lots of other places, including the United States. And that’s not good; that’s far worse than they thought. And, by the way, in the meantime, we’re taking in billions and billions of dollars in tariffs. We’re taking in tremendous numbers in tariffs. And we’re helping our farmers who got targeted. Now, by the way, China is starting to buy our agricultural product again. They’re starting to go with the beef and all of the different things — pork. Very big on pork. But if you look and if you see — and they actually put out, I think, a statement. But they’re starting, very heavy, to buy our ag again. No, they want to make a deal. And they should want to make a deal. The question is: Do we want to make a deal? Q If USMCA doesn’t pass through Congress, is that it for NAFTA? Well, that would be a shame. Well, I don’t want to answer that question, but you know how I feel about NAFTA. I think NAFTA is the worst trade deal ever made, although I also happen to think World Trade Organization was not one of the greats. Not one of the greats. That was the creation of China, which went like a rocket ship from the day they signed. It was — it was terrible. But, no, we’re going to find out. That’s going to be a very interesting question, with Nancy and Chuck and all of these people focusing on the witch hunt because they can’t beat us at the ballot. They can’t beat us at the ballot. And they’re not going to win the presidential. We’re having great polls. We have internal polls that are — Ohio, Iowa. Pennsylvania is looking good. North Carolina. We just won two races that a lot of people — we thought we were going to lose both of those races. One was down 17 points three weeks before the race, and he ended up winning by a substantial margin — by a substantial margin. And — Dan Bishop. And then we had a second race, as you know, and he was up one or two points and ended up winning by — what was it? Twenty-five points or some incredible — I’ll ask you folks because I don’t want to be inaccurate. Otherwise, I’ll have a front-page story: “We have breaking news. Trump exaggerated.” But he won by many, many points. And he was leading by maybe two, maybe three, but he won by — in the twenties. So it’s — it’s been — so we’re looking great in North Carolina, looking great in Florida. And you had one or two congressmen Democrats say, “Listen, we can’t beat them at the election, so let’s impeach him.” Right? Didn’t you hear — Al Green. That’s a beauty. He’s a real beauty, that guy. But he said, very distinctively, it’s all — it was all over the place. I don’t know — they’re trying to lose that tape, I guess. But he said, “We can’t…” Essentially, he said, “We can’t beat him. Let’s impeach him.” That’s pretty — that’s pretty dangerous stuff. Steve, go ahead. Q Thank you, sir. You had expressed some concerns about the precedent of releasing the transcript. Yeah. I don’t like it. Q Why did you go ahead and do it? Because I was getting such fake news, and I just thought it would be better. And now they’re asking for the first phone conversation, and I’ll release that too, if it’s important to you. But they’re asking for — because I had a conversation previous — on a previous election plateau that he had hit. The — the current president hit a couple of different plateaus. And I spoke to him, previous to the call that we released, which was a very innocent call — very, very innocent; very nice call. And as he said, we were — “I wasn’t pushed. I wasn’t pushed,” meaning pressured. He wasn’t pressured at all. But I don’t like the concept of releasing calls because when a president or prime minister, or a king or a queen, calls the United States, you don’t like to say, “Gee, we’re going to release your call to the fake-news media, and they’re going to make you look like a fool.” What happens is, it’s hard to do business that way. You want to have people feel comfortable. So I hated it, but you folks were saying such lies, such horrible things about a call that was so innocent and so nice. In fact, Lindsey Graham said to me, when he read it — it was very interesting. He’s a good man. He’s a smart man. He said, “I can’t believe it. I never knew you could be this, really, nice to a person.” He said, “I cannot believe it. You were so nice. I didn’t think you had that in you to be so nice.” I was nice. I’m nice to a lot of people. People don’t understand that. But I was. But he was shocked that it was such a nice call. There — he said, “There is nothing here.” And all fair people say the same thing. But I don’t like the precedent, Steve. I don’t like it where you’re dealing with heads of state and to think that their call is going to be released. But I felt that — and, you know, we spoke to Ukraine about it. Mike actually called up his counterpart, and we spoke to Ukraine about it because we want to — because they could have been — if that they didn’t want us to do it, we would not have done it. But he actually said, “That was a very innocent call. You can release it all you want.” Q And are you now braced for long impeachment saga? Well, I thought we won. I thought it was dead. It was dead. The Mueller report — no obstruction, no collusion. You look at all of the things that happened. Corey Lewandowski was fantastic the other day, as a person that they have been tormenting. You look at all the people that they’ve tormented, all the legal fees. People came here with bright eyes; they wanted to make life so great for other people. And they left where they spent hundreds of thousands of dollars in legal fees that they didn’t have. And it’s a sad thing. What these Democrats have done to ruin lives is so sad. I’ve seen people with only good intention. They came to Washington because they wanted to make the United States and the world a better place. And they went home — they were dark. They got hit by Mueller’s subpoenas. I think there were 2,500 subpoenas, or some ridiculous number. Five hundred people were interviewed, and yet, they don’t interview Joe Biden and his son. If you’re Democrat, you have automatic protection. That’s years and years of people putting in certain people into positions. But when you look at all of the — all of the trauma that these fakers, of course — and the press — look, the press is — much of the press is not only fake, it’s corrupt. These stories they write are corrupt; they’re so wrong. And they know that. You know, it used to be — I used to get great press until I ran for politics. I mean, I used to be the king of getting good press. I was very good at it. And I got good. I mean, they covered me well for what — otherwise, I probably wouldn’t be here. And once I ran, I said, “Boy, this is incredible.” But if you see the way they treat my family — used to be treated great. My family worked so hard. The people that work with me — these people — all of these people, they work so hard. They’ve done such a good — Look, we have the greatest economy we’ve ever had. We have a military — two and a half trillion dollars. We’ve rebuilt our military. You don’t hear the vets complaining. We got Choice approved. It couldn’t be approved. But when you see what happened with the viciousness, and when you see little Adam Schiff go out and lie and lie and stand at the mic — smart guy, by the way — stand at the mic and act like he’s so serious. And then he goes into a room with Nadler, and they must laugh their asses off. They must laugh their asses off. But it’s so bad for our country. People have said — Rush Limbaugh — great man; Sean Hannity said it. A lot of people have said it. Mark Levin. They said they don’t know if one man anywhere in the world, with all the men they know — or woman — that could handle what I’ve had to handle. And I think that’s true, but I handle it. To me, it’s like putting on a suit. All right, how about one more question? A question on the economy. A question on the economy. Go ahead. Go ahead. Q Hi, Mr. President. VPItv from Venezuela — Caracas, Venezuela. Good. Good. Wow. Q Yeah. How are you doing? Q We made it. How are you doing over there? Q Pretty bad. Our situation is pretty bad. Yeah. I would say “pretty bad.” Yeah. Sad. Q Yeah. But we are fighting. And it was one of the great countries and one of the richest countries not so long ago — 15 years ago. It’s incredible. Q But we are going to make it. Right. I agree with that. And we’re helping you. Q Yeah. We’re helping you. Q Yeah, I know. And thank you. Go ahead. Q I have two questions — Go ahead. Q — to take advantage of this. Maduro traveled to Russia and Diosdado Cabello to North Korea — two of the most antagonist nations in the U.S. interests. What can be done to contain this? What are they looking for in that country? And because the special envoy, Mr. Abrams, said that the Russians are willing to negotiate it. This is one question. And the other: Mr. President, you say that the socialists is one of the biggest challenges, you said yesterday in the United Nations. But the region is far from safe. Maduro is still a dictator, full in power. in Argentina and Brazil are on their about the socialist and populist. Are you worried about it? Well, I just say that socialism will never happen in the United States. It can’t happen in the United States. And Venezuela — unfortunately, I have to use your country as the example of what socialism can do, how it can tear the fabric of a country apart. Because I know a lot about Venezuela. I’ve had many, many friends of mine come from Venezuela. They live — many in Miami — a certain section of Miami, I won’t mention the name because they’ll say I’m thinking about my business, and I’m not. But they are fantastic people and they like your President. They voted overwhelmingly for me. They like what I’m doing for Venezuela. We have Venezuela very much in our hearts and very much in our sights. And we’re watching it very carefully. And you know what I would say? We’re giving millions and millions of dollars in aid — not that we want to, from the Maduro standpoint, but we have to because, on a humanitarian — people are dying. They have no food. They have no water. They have no nothing. They’re dying. No medicine. Their hospitals are closed or — or don’t even have electricity. It’s so sad to see. Let me just say that we have it under control. We are watching it very carefully. And we’re going to be very, very — Q Russia — We’re — we’re watching it very carefully, including other countries that may or may not be playing games. We’re watching it very closely. Q But, you know, if Russia is talking with the USA or Guaidó, what can you tell — about us? Just put this in the back of your mind: It’s all going to be fine. We know everything that you said, and it’s all going to be fine. We’re very much involved. We very much know what’s going on, and we’re very much involved. Okay? Thank you all very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. END 5:10 P.M. EDT
Thank you very much. Are you ready? Ready? Thank you very much. Thank you. I’m honored to be here today among so many terrific leaders dedicated to the future of democracy, prosperity, and freedom for the people of Venezuela. We are behind you. For this deeply important event, we are grateful to be joined by Secretary Mike Pompeo, Secretary Steve Mnuchin, Secretary Wilbur Ross, and Administrator Mark Green. Thank you all for being here. Thank you very much. I want to extend my profound appreciation to every representative with us from across the Western Hemisphere. Each of you is part of a historic coalition of 55 countries that recognize the legitimate constitutional government of Venezuela. We are especially grateful to be joined by representatives of the people of Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, Chile, Ecuador, and Peru, for their leadership and assistance in the face of an unprecedented political, economic, and humanitarian disaster, which has been going on for a long time. And we’re helping a lot. We’re helping a lot. Let me also recognize two leaders from the government of Venezuela’s legitimate interim government, Presidential Commissioner for Foreign Affairs, Julio Borges. Where’s Julio? Julio? Please, stand up, Julio. Great. Thank you very much. Thank you. And Venezuela’s Ambassador to the United States, Carlos Vecchio. Where’s Carlos? Thank you, Carlos. Please. It’s very nice. Thank you. As everyone in this room knows, the situation in Venezuela is a tragedy of historic proportions. The Maduro regime does not care about the welfare of their own people. They care about their own power. It’s what they want, is power and money. They want the money, too — not just power. Socialism has destroyed what was once among the most prosperous countries anywhere in the world. You go back 20 years ago and you look: one of the wealthiest countries in the world, relatively speaking. And now, they don’t have water, they don’t have food, they don’t have medicine, they don’t have anything. Today, Venezuelans are starving and they’re dying from lack of medicine, doctors, help. According to U.N. Human Rights Commissioner, Maduro’s Cuban-trained death squads have murdered up to 10,000 Venezuelans, and they think that number is extremely low. Citizens since — all since 2018. That’s over a very short period of time. These atrocities are an outrage to all and everything that we hold dear. As President of the United States, I am committed to the future of stability, prosperity, and liberty for Venezuela. We will stand with the Venezuelan people every single day until they are finally freed from this horrible and brutal oppression. They will be freed. It will happen. Our first objective is to ensure a peaceful and constitutional transition, paving the way for free and fair elections. That’s why we, at the United States, and in the United States, are doing everything we can to isolate Maduro and his cronies. Over the past year, the U.S. Treasury Department has imposed very tough sanctions to prevent Maduro and his enablers from accessing the U.S. financial system. Last month, I issued an executive order to completely freeze the assets of the Maduro regime in the United States. Our sanctions have been tightly focused on closing down every avenue by which Maduro sustains his criminal and totalitarian rule. And he has been vicious, he’s been corrupt. He’s been as bad as you get. At the same time, we have undertaken significant efforts to ensure that the Venezuelan people have access to food, medicine, and other humanitarian supplies, despite the regime’s efforts to stop aid from coming into Venezuela. They are making it very, very hard to get aid into Venezuela. We are getting aid into Venezuela, but it’s a very difficult thing. You would think, frankly, that would be to their benefit to let aid get in instead of letting people die from lack of medicine or food. But they don’t make it easy, but we get it in anyway. We call on Maduro to immediately allow his lifesaving humanitarian aid. This has to be allowed to come into Venezuela for the long-suffering Venezuelan people. Unfortunately, a few countries outside of this hemisphere continue to enable this depraved regime with military and technological support. The most significant factor propping up the Venezuelan regime is the communist dictatorship in Cuba. Maduro allows Cuba to plunder Venezuelans’ oil, raid its wealth, and rob its people. Venezuela’s oil is at a low point. Not much is being taken out. Not many people are in there because of the dangers involved. But nevertheless, there’s some money coming out, and it goes into Cuba. He’s allowed thousands of Cuban agents to infiltrate Venezuela’s security forces and other institutions. In other words, Maduro has sold out his nation to a foreign dictatorship, and it has been that way a long time. The civilized world must pressure the Cuban regime to leave Venezuela immediately. The United States is ready to support a democratic transition government, and we know that our partners around the world — of which we have many — are ready as well. Venezuela’s rebuilding can begin the moment a peaceful transition occurs. This is a critical moment for the world. We must not allow the destructive forces of socialism and communism to repeat the horrors of the last century. Can’t allow it to happen. There have been horrors like nobody would believe. We can’t allow this to happen today in Venezuela. We resolve that the future of the Western Hemisphere will not be written by socialists and tyrants, but by liberty-loving patriots. Our great destiny is to become the first fully free hemisphere in human history. We have a very, very good chance of doing that. We work and we pray for the hour when every person across the region, and every suffering soul in Cuba, Nicaragua, and Venezuela, will finally know the blessings of democracy and the full glory of freedom. Once again, thank you all to so many of my friends in this room and to the nations that have helped us with respect to Venezuela and many other things. I want to personally thank the President of Mexico for the incredible work and spirit and everything that they’ve done on our southern border. Our southern border has become secure, with 27,000 Mexican soldiers on the Mexican side, telling people, “Sorry, you can’t come in.” So I want to thank the President of Mexico. Thank you very much. And for Venezuela: It will all work. It will all come back. And good things will happen. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you. Thank you very much. Q Mr. President, on the transcript, sir? On the transcript, sir? Okay. You know what? Because you’re so anxious, we’re going to let you stay as certain presidents speak. Because I know that’s what you want to hear. Thank you. Maybe I’ll move there. Thank you. Thank you. Would the presidents like to speak in front of the media or without the media? We have three presidents who are going to speak. Would you prefer the media or not, presidents? Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you, everybody. Thank you very much. Q Mr. President, in the Ukraine transcript, sir, you talk about how good the U.S. has been to Ukraine. You ask President Zelensky for a favor. And you ask him to talk to the Attorney General of the United States and Rudy Giuliani about Joe Biden. Sir, how is that not pressuring President Zelensky? How does the transcript — There was no pressure whatsoever. And if you take a look at the Democrats, they went down to see the President of Ukraine, and they asked him for all sorts of things. And, “Don’t go with the Republicans,” and, “Stay with us.” And — like it’s a political war. They shouldn’t have done that. That should be an impeachable event, I guess, based on what you’re saying. The Democrats just came out. They went down there — a group of people — some of whom I was dealing with on the gun issue. And they went down and put tremendous pressure on Ukraine. The President himself just came out with a statement saying there was absolutely no pressure put on him. And there wasn’t. What I do want to see is, is I want to see other countries helping Ukraine also, not just us. As usual, the United States helps, and nobody else is there. So I want to see other countries help. Just so you understand, it’s the single greatest witch hunt in American history — probably, in history, but in American history. It’s a disgraceful thing. The letter was a great letter. Meaning, the letter revealing the call. That was done at the insistence of myself and other people that read it. It was a friendly letter. There was no pressure. The way you had that built up — that call — it was going to be the call from hell. It turned out to be a nothing call, other than a lot of people said, “I never knew you could be so nice.” So, part of the problem you have is you have the fake news. You have a lot of corrupt reporting. You have some very fine reporters and journalists, but you have a lot of corrupt reporters, a lot of corrupt journalists. I would rate you right in there, by the way. And — Q You said — Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. So, we’re having — if you noticed, the stock market went up. When they saw the nonsense, all of a sudden the stock market went down very substantially yesterday when they saw a charge. After they read the charge, the stock market went up very substantially. We have created the greatest economy in the history of our country. The greatest economy in the world. Had my opponent won, China would right now be the number one economy, by far. And right now, China is way behind us and they’ll never catch us if we have smart leadership. Way behind. We’ve picked up trillions of dollars, and they’ve lost trillions of dollars. And they want to make a deal very badly. And it could happen. It could happen. It could happen. It could happen sooner than you think. Our military is rebuilt. Our military has never been stronger. When I came in, it was depleted. Our vets are happy. So many great things are happening. And the Democrats feel they’re going to lose. We had the highest poll number — Rasmussen — 53, but they say you could add 10 to it. A lot of people say you could add more than 10 to it because a lot of people just don’t want to talk about it, but they want to vote for Trump. So I just say this: We have the strongest country we’ve ever had. We have the best economy we’ve ever had. We have the best unemployment numbers we’ve ever had. We have the best employment numbers we’ve ever had. We have now almost 160 million people working. That’s far more than we’ve ever had working in our country before. Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. END 10:52 A.M. EDT
Well, Mr. Secretary-General, you’ve become my friend. And we have had a lot of time together — hours and hours — talking about world problems, world events. And a lot of progress has been made. You know, I’ve long said that I think the United Nations is an institution with more potential than virtually any institution I can think of. It’s called the “potential of war,” which is bad, and “peace,” which is great. And I think we’ve been doing a great job on the “peace” aspect of it. But we’ve had many great meetings with Angela and — thank you very much. The Polish people are very happy. I’ve heard that today. They were very happy with your performance yesterday. Great job. But I just want to thank everybody for being here. It’s an honor to have you in the United States, an honor to have you in New York City. And the United Nations is very, very special. And most importantly, I want to congratulate you on the incredible job you’re doing. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary-General. Thank you. Thank you, everybody. Thank you. END 1:33 P.M. EDT
So we had a great meeting yesterday, as you know, with the Prime Minister. And I think that, as far as Pakistan is concerned, India — they’re talking. I’m certainly willing to help. I think they would, in a certain way, like my help. But they have to both want it. They have very different views, and I’m concerned about it. On Iran, I think we’re doing very well. Let’s see what happens with Iran. But we are — we’re in a very strong position on Iran. And I think they’d like to do something, and I think it would be a smart thing for them if they did. Q I have two questions. The first is your reaction to the Washington Post story about you supposedly asking and withholding or holding the funds and aid for Ukraine. And the second one is: You’re meeting tomorrow with Venezuela — with leaders of Latin America to talk about Venezuela. Nicolás Maduro said that if the United States changed the policies of Obama, they will meet with you and they would love to have talks. What do you think? So, here’s the story, very simply: We’re watching Venezuela very closely. As far as withholding funds, those funds were paid. They were fully paid. But my complaint has always been — and I’d withhold again, and I’ll continue to withhold until such time as Europe and other nations contribute to Ukraine. Because they’re not doing it. Just the United States. We’re putting up the bulk of the money. And I’m asking why is that. And I want Europe — and it’s always been this, and everybody know it. Every single reporter knows it. Everybody in the administration knows that what I want, and I insist on it, is that Europe has to put up money for Ukraine also. Why is it only the United States putting up the money? And I — and, by the way, we paid that money. But I always ask: Why aren’t other countries — in Europe, especially — putting up money for Ukraine? Go ahead. Go ahead. Q Mr. President, Congress is moving towards impeachment, including Nancy Pelosi. It could be a result of the Ukraine call. How do you feel about that? I think it’s ridiculous. It’s a witch hunt. I’m leading in the polls. They have no idea how they stop me. The only way they can try is through impeachment. This has never happened to a President before. There’s never been a thing like this before. It’s nonsense. And when you see the call, when you see the readout of the call — which I assume you’ll see at some point — you’ll understand. That call was perfect. It couldn’t have been nicer. And even the Ukrainian government put out a statement that that was a perfect call. There was no pressure put on them whatsoever. But there was pressure put on with respect to Joe Biden. What Joe Biden did for his son, that’s something they should be looking at. Go ahead. You. Q Why did you block aid a week before the call with the Ukrainian President? Because very important — very important: I want other countries to put up money. I think it’s unfair that we put up the money. Then people called me, they said, “Oh, let it go.” And I let it go. But we paid the money. The money was paid. But very importantly: Germany, France, other countries should put up money. And that’s been my complaint from the beginning. Q Are you confident your advisors aren’t dragging you into war in Iran? Thirteen percent of Americans only support war with Iran. It seems like a lot of your advisors, including , want to drag you into a war. Well, we’re going to see what happens. But I think Iran is coming along well. Regardless of what happens, we’re in very good shape with respect to Iran. Okay? Thank you, everybody. END
Thank you, everybody. We’re signing a joint declaration on advancing defense cooperation with Poland and the United States. It has been under — I think you could say under review. We’ve been looking at it for many years, and it’s getting done now. We have a great relationship with Poland. And, Mr. President, I’d like to thank you very much. It’s been a lot of fun working with you, and I think it’s been very productive. We’re also doing waivers — the visa waivers for Poland. And that’s in the works. We’re working on the structure right now. But you can report back to the people of Poland, and the Polish people in the United States, that President Trump got it done, and nobody else could for a long time, as you know. So thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you. Thank you. Congratulations. It’s fantastic. Thank you very much. Thank you. We’re going into the other room now.
We’re going to France. We’re going to have a good few days. I think it will be very productive seeing a lot of the leaders, who are friends of mine, for the most part. I wouldn’t say in a hundred percent of the cases, but for the most part. And I think we’re doing very well. Our economy is doing great. We’re having a little spat with China, and we’ll win it. We put a lot of tariffs on China today, as you know. They put some on us; we put a lot on them. We’re up to about $550 billion. They’ve been hitting us for many, many years — for over $500 billion a year — taking out of our country much more than $500 billion a year. So, we want that stopped. Okay? Q Do you still want to China next month? Well, we’ll see what happens. At this moment, they want to do that. So we’ll see what happens. If they want to have talks, we cert- — I’m always open to talk. Q What authority tariffing companies ? Well, in 1977, we had an act passed — a National Emergency Act. I have the absolute right to do that. We’ll see how that goes. But I have the absolute right. 1977 — check it out. Q No, I think our tariffs are very good for us. We’re taking in tens of billions of dollars. China is paying for it. They’re, as you know, manipulating their currency. I think that our tariffs are working out very well for us. People don’t understand that yet. At the same time, China has had the worst — the worst year probably in anywhere from 30 to 50 years. Their worst year. And they want to make a deal. Q Jay Powell? No, I’m not happy with Jay Powell. I don’t think he’s doing a good job at all. I don’t think he’s much of a chess player. But, I’ve got him, so, you know, that’s what I have. That’s what I have. What can I tell you? He’s not much of a chess player. Q In the summit, sir — Japan ? I’m going to see Prime Minster Abe. I look forward to it. He’s a great gentleman. He’s a great friend of mine. Q South Korea ended military intelligence agreement with Japan. Are you worried about that? Well, we’re going to — we’re going to see what happens. President Moon also a very good friend of mine. And we’ll see what happens with South Korea. Q Did Kim Jong Un break a promise to you by doing further missile testing? No, I don’t think so. I think that we have a very good relationship. We’ll see what happens. That could always change, but we’ll see what happens. Kim Jong Un has been, you know, pretty straight with me, I think. And we’re going to see what’s going on. We’re going to see what’s happening. He likes testing missiles. But we never restricted short-range missiles. We’ll see what happens. Many nations test those missiles. We tested a very big one the other day, as you probably noticed. Q Six hundred and twenty-three points — that’s what the Dow was down today because of what you tweeted. Do you have a responsibility for that? Not at all. Not at all. Because if you look at from November 9th — the day after the election — we’re up 50 percent or more. We’re up many, many points. We were at about sixteen or seventeen thousand. We’re at 25,000, so don’t tell me about 600 points. Q Do you have a message for Justice Ginsburg? Say it? Q Do you have a message for Justice Ginsburg? Well, I hope she does really well. And our thoughts and prayers are with her. And it’s a very serious situation. I’m hoping she’s going to be fine. She’s pulled through a lot. She’s strong, very tough. But we wish her well — very well. Q Mr. President, are you going to talk to President Macron about the technology tax ? Yeah, I am. I don’t like what France did. They put a technology tax on our tech company. And it’s not that I’m the biggest fan of the techs companies — the tech companies, because, as you know, they were very much opposed to the Republicans, and they are very much opposed. Somebody came in the other day and said the election that we had in ’16 with Hillary Clinton, that it could’ve cost me anywhere from 2,600 — from 2,600,000 votes to, I think, it went up to close to either ten or maybe fifteen million votes. So I’m not a big fan of the tech companies, but I don’t want foreign companies and foreign countries — I don’t want them doing anything having to do with taxing unfairly our companies. Those are great American companies. And, frankly, I don’t want France going out and taxing our companies. Very unfair. And if they do that, we’ll be taxing their wine or doing something else. We’ll be taxing their wine like they’ve never seen before. I don’t like it. That’s for us to tax them. It’s not for France to tax them. Other than that, I have a very good relationship with, as you know, with Macron — as you say. And I think we’re going to have a very good couple of days. I look forward to being in France. Q What did you mean yesterday when you said you were the “chosen one”? Did you mean it in a biblical sense? Let me tell you, you know exactly what I meant. It was sarcasm. It was joking. We were all smiling. And a question like that is just fake news. You’re just a faker. Q Are you interested in changing your ideas about giving reparations to African Americans in this country? Well, I never stated my idea, so you tell me what my ideas were. I never stated them. They’re your ideas. Q Okay well — So don’t — no, no, no, no. Don’t put a question like that. I’ve never stated my ideas, so don’t put the question like that. Q Do you want Powell to resign? Say it? Q Do you want Powell to resign? Do you want Powell to resign, sir? Do I want him to resign? Let me put it this way: If he did, I wouldn’t stop him. Q President Xi — you referred to him as Chairman Xi today. You get along well with him, you do business with him. I think you maybe even called him a friend at one point. Today you implied that he’s an enemy, along with Jay Powell. Is he an enemy or a friend? He’s a very good competitor, but we’re going to win. Q Mr. President, why did you decide not to pursue your foreign aid cuts? Your decision package for the foreign aid cuts — why did you decide not to cut? We’re going to be spending that money in different ways than you think. But rather than renegotiating everything again, I’m going to do it the way I just said. We’ll be distributing that money differently. Q Danish Prime Minister? Called me. A wonderful woman. We had a great conversation. We have a very good relationship with Denmark. And we agreed to speak later. But she was very nice. She put a call in, and I appreciated it very much. Q with China? Look, China has been hurting our country for 30 years with the money they’ve been taking out. Other Presidents should’ve done something about it, and they should’ve done it a long time ago, whether it was Clinton or Bush or Obama — any of them. They should’ve done something about it. And they didn’t. I’m doing it. And I have no choice, because we’re not going to lose close to a trillion dollars a year to China. And China understands that. I hope that with President Xi — I have a good relationship, but they understand we’re not going to do it. And this is more important than anything else right now — just about — that we’re working on. We have to make sure that our taxpayer — look, we have helped rebuild China like nobody else. And they’ve done a great job. And I don’t blame China. I blame our Presidents, our representatives, past administrations, for allowing that to happen. It’s a disgrace. END 11:12 P.M. EDT
I did. “Victory.” Q Victory. Thank you very much for the horse. Did you see a picture of the horse? Q Not yet. Beautiful. Mongolia — they’re great fighters. You know, they’re great fighters, great wrestlers, great champions. Right? And we have the grand champion of sumo wrestling with us, from a couple of years ago. And he’s here from Mongolia. I was told that in Japan, actually, that they’ve had four grand champions from Mongolia. So they’re great, great fighters. Your people are great fighters. Thank you very — we need great fighters too. Q Do you have any intelligence that Bin Laden’s son has been killed? I don’t want to comment on it. I don’t want to comment on that. Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you. Q Can we see you in eight minutes for the Fed rate cut? Yeah, we’ll have a comment on it. I’ll gladly have a comment on that. END 1:53 P.M. EDT
Well, thank you very much for being here. We appreciate it. I’m thrilled to be with a very important man in Guatemala, the Minister Enrique Degenhart. And we are doing a very important signing. It’s a historic asylum, or safe third, agreement between our two countries. A very important event. We’ve long been working with Guatemala, and now we can do it the right way. It’s going to be terrific for them and terrific for the United States. This landmark agreement will put the coyotes and the smugglers out of business. These are bad people. These are very, very bad, sick, deranged people who make a lot of money off other people’s miseries. It’s going to provide safety for legitimate asylum-seekers, and stop asylum fraud and abuses system. This is also transformative in the step it will take, and the many, many steps it will take for security and safety. For Guatemala, it signifies the incredible bright future for their country. This agreement will usher in a new era of investment and growth for their nation, and sets the stage for cooperation between our countries and expanding access to the H-2A visa, which is your agricultural workers and farm workers. We’re going to have them coming into our country in a easier fashion than even before. It’s very important for our business, for our farms, for our ranches. And we are going to make that a very, very much easier, less cumbersome program. And further bilateral investment will take place. But the H-2A is really going to be streamlined. And all of those workers that come in, we want them to continue to come in. As you know, we have a very low rate of unemployment — record-setting. We’re at about 3.5, maybe 3.6. I hear it’s going down — probably will — because the country is doing tremendous business. Had another record stock market. Today, we’re sending a clear message to human smugglers and traffickers that your day is over. And we’re investing in the future of Guatemala, the safety of migrants and their families. We’ll protect the rights of those with legitimate claims, and we’ll end the widespread abuse of the system and the crippling crisis on our border. I want to thank Mexico. As you know, Enrique, the Mexican government, the President of Mexico, has now 21,000 troops on our double borders — on their border. By you, they have about 6,000. And then, on our southern border, they have — getting close to 20,000 by itself. It’s going to probably be about 26,000 people total — soldiers. And very good ones. It’s had a tremendous impact. Really an incredible impact. So, Kevin, if you look at what’s happened over the last short period of time, it’s really been great. Now, if the Democrats would sign something, it would be a lot easier. But we have to do it around the Democrats because they refuse to want to close up the border. They want open borders. That means smugglers, it means hijackers, it means drugs, it means crime. It’s frankly, a disgrace. But with Guatemala and with Mexico, and with other countries that will be signing safe third agreements very shortly, we’re doing really well. I want to thank — if I might, Enrique — the President of Guatemala, President Morales. Please give him my regards. Thank you very much. He’s a terrific guy. We like him very much. And we’ve worked together really, really well. So if you two gentlemen would sit down, Kevin and Enrique, and you’ll sign. I’ll stand right behind you. This way, I’ll confirm it. That’s a very big thing. It’s a very important signature. Never been done before. Thank you very much, Enrique. Thank you all very much. Q What was the breakthrough that led to this? Look, we’ve been dealing for many years, I would say, with Guatemala and with other countries. And we are now at a point where we are — we just get along. And they’re doing what we’ve asked them to do. And I think it’s going to be a great thing for Guatemala. They don’t want these problems either. So we were able to get this done, and we got it done fairly quickly. But this is after many, many years. Mexico also is working along with us very nicely. I mean, tremendously, actually. You’ll see a chart where the numbers are really through the — through the floor, I should say, because they’re going down. Kevin, maybe you want to speak to the numbers, how well we’re doing in terms of apprehensions. And the fact that they do have, really, a big slowdown coming in from Guatemala at the border, because we have, again, 6,000 Mexican troops at the border of Guatemala. So that helps. But this will really help. This is something that’s going to be rather incredible. So the numbers are going down. We — we could really do this in a much easier fashion if we had cooperation from the Democrats. We have absolutely no cooperation. Nobody can understand them. Most of these people, five years ago, they all wanted a wall. And we’re building a lot of wall right now. A lot of it. We’ve ripped down old wall and we’ve ripped down wall that didn’t even exist which was — it had bad footings, bad foundations. It was — there used to be a wall there; there wasn’t. It was gobbled up by the people that crossed. And we’re building beautiful, new wall. A lot of it. And it’s getting built rapidly. So a lot of things are happening. But this is a very — this is a very big day. John? Q Mr. President, the big focus of the Democrats today was to say that they are going to continue and expand your investigations. They’re looking through the grand jury testimony behind the Mueller report. They want to try to enforce the subpoena against Don McGahn. What do you say? I think it’s a disgrace what the Democrats are doing. It’s so sad to see what their — how they’re impeding all of the good things that we’re doing. Like, as an example, today it’s the border. We’re strengthening up our border with a great country. And we have other great countries that are going to be signing on also. And we’re doing this all because the Democrats won’t give us what we need. So simple: Get rid of the loopholes; work on asylum. It would take a very short period of time. They won’t do it. All they want to do is impede. They want to investigate. They want to go fishing. And I watch Bob Mueller, and they have nothing. There’s no collusion, there’s no obstruction. They have nothing. It’s a disgrace. We want to find out what happened with the last Democrat President. Let’s look into Obama the way they’ve looked at me. From day one, they’ve looked into everything that we’ve done. They could look into the book deal that President Obama made. Let’s subpoena all of his records. Let’s subpoena all of the records having to do with Hillary Clinton and all of the nonsense that went on with Clinton and her foundation and everything else. We could do that all day long. Frankly, the Republicans were gentlemen and women. When we had the majority in the House, they didn’t do subpoenas all day long. They didn’t do what they — what these people have done. What they’re doing is a disgrace. So destructive to our country. And I think that’s why we’re going to take back the House. That’s why we’re easily going to hold the presidency and we’re going to continue to hold the Senate. And you know, people don’t say it, but we picked up two seats in the Senate. We went from 51 to 53 in the ’18 election. Nobody says it. They talk about the House. And I didn’t get to campaign very much for the House. I couldn’t because we were campaigning for the Senate. We almost picked up five seats. You know that very well. So it’s a disgrace that they’re doing it. They’re doing it for political reasons. And most of them, many of them, are admitting that. It’s politics. And frankly, it’s a very sad thing for our country. Yes. Q What’s your thinking now about sanctions on Turkey? You had that meeting with the Republican senators the other night. Well, we’re looking at the whole Turkey situation. You know, they’ve ordered 125 F-35 fighter jets. Billions and billions of dollars. They’ve paid some of it. The planes are being made. They’re easily sold to other nations because they’re the greatest fighter jet in the world. And we have a backlog of orders. But it’s a tough situation. They’re getting the S-400 and the — our statutes, and everything else. As you do that, you just can’t order this equipment. And generally speaking, you can’t order equipment, period. I don’t blame Turkey because there are a lot of circumstances and a lot of — a lot of problems that occurred during the Obama administration. This dates back to the Obama administration, which was a disaster, okay? Yes, John. Q May I come back to Guatemala, sir? Please. Q Earlier this week, it looked like things were not going in the right direction. You were even threatening tariffs against Guatemala. What turned around in the last couple of days? Well, I think I’d ask maybe Kevin and Enrique to answer. The relationship has been very good. Yes. Q — walks through Mexico into the U.S., what happens? Are they turned around and ? Yes. A lot of good things happen. Go ahead, Kevin. Which we’ve never had before and which is something that’s so good — good for everybody, but it’s so good. Q Are tariffs off the table now, sir? Q Are you going to sign a border agreement soon? And who with? Well, we have a great agreement with Mexico, but we’re going to probably do some additional work on it because we can’t get anything from the Democrats. Dealing with Mexico is really — what Mexico is doing for us at the border is far greater than what the Democrats have done. You know, the amazing thing about the Democrats: It was all fine, everything was great, four or five years ago, before I was President. And now they think we’re going to win, so they’re doing everything they can — with the impeachment nonsense, where you had no obstruction, you had no collusion. You know, obstruction is sort of interesting. They’ve interviewed 500 people. They’ve interviewed lawyers. They’re interviewed everybody that they wanted to interview; people that have — I could have kept back by using presidential privilege. I could’ve kept back everybody. They didn’t have to interview anybody. I gave them a total — and they say “obstruction.” These people are clowns. The Democrats are clowns. They’re being laughed at all over the world. And I watched this morning — I watched Nancy Pelosi trying to get through that, with the performance that Robert Mueller put on, where — I don’t think he ever read the agreement or the document. And the document said, “No collusion.” They don’t even talk about that. So there was no crime. They said, “Well, there was no crime but he obstructed.” How do you obstruct if there’s no crime? But, actually, it was worse than that because it was a phony crime that they put on. The crime was what they put on. But I watched Mueller — for two and a half years, we’ve watched this. And that’s the best they have, and it’s a disgrace. And the world is laughing at them. And unfortunately, it’s so bad for our country. It’s bad in our relationships with other countries, including Russia. There’s no reason we shouldn’t get along with Russia. There’s no reason we shouldn’t get along with other countries. And one of the things that’s nice about Guatemala is we’ve never had a better relationship. Right now, they’ve agreed to do something that’s very good for the United States. And we’re going to work with them also. We’re going to be — it’s going to be a partnership. And it’s happening with Mexico too. We never had any kind of cooperation with Mexico ever, until this President, frankly, and my presidency, where you have maybe 21,000 — could be 26,000 — soldiers. And it’s still good for Mexico because they’re killing — they’re getting rid of the cartels, which everybody knows they’ve been running big portions of Mexico — and the coyotes and all of these terrible people. Mexico has done a great job for their people. The President has done a great job for his people. And President Morales has done a great job by doing this, because now he has a friend in the United States instead of an enemy of the United States. Yes, John. Q Mr. President, are you going to slap tariffs on French wine? I might. I might. So, France put on a tax on our companies. You know that. And — wrong. Wrong thing to do. They should not have done it. So I may do that. I may — I’ve always liked American wines better than French wines, even though I don’t drink wine. I just like the way they look, okay? But American wines are great. American wines are great. And they didn’t do the right thing, when they start taxing our companies. We tax our companies; they don’t tax our companies. So France did that. I told him — I said, “Don’t do it, because if you do it, I’m going to tax your wine” — tariff, or tax — call it whatever you want. So, yeah, we’re working on that right now. Q You were critical of Macron’s decision to do this. How is that relationship between you and Macron? Good. I just spoke to him. Q You used to be very close. No, I just spoke to him. I have a good relationship with President Macron. But they shouldn’t have done this. They’re used to taking advantage of the United States, but not with me as President. Look, I look at deals that were done with other Presidents and this country, and it’s a disgrace that our country has allowed this to happen — where China, for years and years and years was making from $300 billion to $507 billion a year, okay? Now we’re taking in billions of dollars from China, and it’s all turning around. Whether a deal is made — you know, they’re going next week; they have more meetings. Meeting after meeting. I don’t think, personally, China would sign a deal if I had a 2 percent chance of losing the election. I think China would probably say, “Let’s wait. Let’s wait. Maybe Trump will lose and we can deal with another dope or another stiff,” like the people that allowed these deals to happen, this horrible thing to happen to our country. Because what’s happened to our country — the money that China has taken out of the United States has rebuilt China. And I don’t blame China. I blame the United States for allowing that to happen. So if I’m President Xi, or if I’m, frankly, Iran — and Iran wants to make a deal; I can tell you that right now. But if I’m Iran, I’ll probably say, “Man, if I can hold out, I’m going to wait for Sleepy Joe Biden instead of Trump, because Sleepy Joe, we can make any deal we want with him. He doesn’t know what’s happening.” So, what else? Q Back to the tariffs on French wine. When? We’ll be announcing it sometime fairly soon. We’ll see what happens. But they put a tax on. We said, “Don’t do it. We tax our companies. You don’t tax our companies.” And we’ll be announcing something. It might be on wine; it might be on something else. But we’ll be — it’s called “reciprocal.” It’s a reciprocal tax. And we’ll be announcing that fairly soon, John. It makes sense, John. Do you agree with that? You’re a man — you’re a man that enjoys wine. You just won’t enjoy French wine anymore. Go ahead, Steve. Q I would agree that American wines are very, very good. They are great. Q I think Mnuchin and Lighthizer are going to Shanghai next week for those trade talks. Are — They will be going. Q You don’t sound optimistic that they’re going to come out with a deal. No, I’m never — look, look, look: I think that China will probably say, “Let’s wait. It’s 14, 15 months until the election. Let’s see if one these people that give the United States away, let’s see if one of them could possibly get elected.” And I’ll tell you what: When I win, like almost immediately, they’re all going to sign deals, and they’re going to be phenomenal deals for the country. But — so I don’t know that they’re going to — I don’t know if they’re going to make a deal. Maybe they will; maybe they don’t. I don’t care, because we’re taking in tens of billions of dollars’ worth of tariffs. And the farmers are happy because I gave them $16 billion out of the tariffs and had tremendous — you know, much more than that left over, as you know. Tremendous amount of money left over, like by three times. And we haven’t even taxed China yet, compared to what I could do. So we have tens of billions of dollars rolling in from China. We never had 10 cents coming in. And again, I don’t blame President Xi. I blame our past leaders for allowing it to happen for so many years with the World Trade Organization. China was totally flat-lined. And when the World Trade Organization came about and China joined the World Trade, they became a rocket ship, because, you know, it’s a very unfair situation that took place at the World Trade Organization, as are many of them. So they’re going to go and we’ll talk. We’ll see. I don’t personally care that much because we’re getting billions and billions. Remember this: The people aren’t paying for it. Everyone says people pay for it. China has devalued the currency, and they’re putting money in — they’re pumping money into their society, into their country, like you wouldn’t believe. You call it “quantitative easing.” With us, we have a Fed that does quantitative tightening and they raise interest rates. So we have a normalized rate. President Obama had no rates and he had no tightening. And we still have a much better economy than in his wildest dreams. So — and there is something okay about that, but we — look, the Fed acted too soon. I turned out to be right. They acted too soon and too violently. We’ve had nine increases, I believe — you’ll check that — but I believe it’s nine increases. A couple of under — a couple under her and a lot under Powell. I’m not a fan. Okay, what else? Q The U.S. dollar, sir. The U.S. dollar. It is too high? Too low? Oh, the dollar is very strong. The country is very strong. The dollar is a — it’s a beautiful thing in one way, but it makes it harder to compete. And despite that — but we have a very powerful dollar. So that’s the good news. Despite that, we’re doing really well. The country is doing well. It’s really become, more than ever before, the currency of choice. You know, you have the euro that tried to cut in. Well, the euro is now not doing so well. Europe is not doing so well. China is not doing very well. You look at other countries — we’re the hottest economic country in the world. There’s nobody close. Even Guatemala wants to do business with us now. So, we’re happy. Right? I could do that in two seconds if I wanted. Q But why did you not want to entertain it then? Well, I wouldn’t say I’m not going to do something, but I’m — you know, look, having a strong dollar — there’s a reason that it sounds so good. And having a strong dollar is having a strong dollar. We have an amazing country. We have a very strong country. That’s why our country has a strong currency. Other countries have a currency that’s down the tubes. It’s a currency that’s weak. China’s currency is very low. You look at other countries — look at the euro; the euro is so low. I mean, Germany is paying almost no interest. We’re paying 2.1 percent. We’re paying a lot of interest. That’s because we have a strong currency. It’s a very complicated formula for some people. It’s not complicated for me. The Federal Reserve raised the rates too fast and too soon, and they shouldn’t have done quantitative tightening, which they did. If they didn’t do that, we would be at 4.5 percent instead of 2.1. Everybody is so thrilled with 2.1. We could have had it much more, except for the Federal Reserve. And we could have been five- to ten thousand points higher in the Dow. Now, I don’t want to sound too upset about it because we just broke the all-time record in the history of our country on the Dow. But we could have been higher, right? Could have been a contender. Could have been higher, as Marlon would say. Marlon Brando. The great Marlon Brando. Yes, Steve. Q Are you okay with North Korea firing off these short-range missiles? Well, you said it: They’re short-range missiles. And my relationship is very good with Chairman Kim. And we’ll see what happens. But they are short-range missiles, and many people have those missiles. Q You don’t sound too spun up about it. Nope. Not at all. Q They’re describing those short-range as a warning, and “short-range” is short-range for the United States but not short-range for our allies, right? South Korea, Japan. Well, he didn’t say — he didn’t say a warning to the United States, I can tell you that. He didn’t say a warning to the United States. But they have their disputes. The two of them have their disputes. They’ve had them for a long time. But he didn’t say that. But they are short-range missiles and very standard missiles. Q Mr. President, have you spoken with Boris Johnson yet? Yes. Very good question. Q And what did you have to say? That’s the best question you’ve ever asked. Q I asked it the other day, and you said, “no.” Well, you know why your timing is good? Because I spoke to him about — how long have you been here? Sixteen minutes. I spoke to him 17 minutes ago. I hung up the phone as you were coming in. And he’s a good guy. He’s a friend of mine. I think we’re going to have a great relationship. And Boris is going to be a great Prime Minister. I predict he will be a great Prime Minister. He has what it takes. They needed him for a long time. UK needed him for a long time. And — Q Would you — would you invite him here? — let’s see what happens. Yeah, he’ll – he and I will spend a lot of — we just spent a lot of time when I was with the Queen in one of the great, most beautiful couple of days that I’ve ever experienced. She’s a tremendous woman. Incredible woman. We get along very well. So, Boris and I just spoke. I congratulated him. And he’s all set to go. He’s going to be — I think he’ll do a great job. We’re working already on a trade agreement. And I think it will be a very substantial trade agreement. You know, we can do with the UK — we can do three to four times. We were actually impeded by their relationship with the European Union. We were very much impeded on trade. And I think we can do three to four, five times what we’re doing. We don’t do the kind of trade we could do with what some people say is Great Britain, and some people remember a word you don’t hear too much is the word, “England,” which is a piece of it. But with the UK, we could do much, much more trade. And we expect to do that, okay? Q Apple. You just warned Apple about tariff. So — Apple? Q Yeah, Apple. And they’re saying they don’t have skilled labor in the Well, I want Apple to build their plants in the United States. I don’t want them to build them in China. So when I heard they were going to build in China, I said, “No, it’s okay. You can build in China, but when you send your product into the United States, we’re going to tariff you.” But we’ll work it out. A man I have a lot of liking for and respect is Tim Cook. And we’ll work it out. I think they’re going to announce that they’re going to build a plant in Texas. And if they do that, I’m starting to get very happy. Okay? Q Mr. President, do you expect to get some more agreements, like the one signed today, with Honduras and El Salvador? And are you working on doing that? I do. I do. I do indeed. Q Will you get them soon? Pretty soon. I mean, we get quick agreements. So I just want to end up by saying that Guatemala has been really a pleasure to deal with, and we’re going to have a great relationship for many years to come. And I’d like you, please, extend my warmest regards to the people of Guatemala. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you, everybody. Q When are you planning your working vacation in Bedminster? What? Q Are you planning a working vacation in Bedminster this year? By the way, Bedminster is not a vacation. I don’t go to — Q That’s why I said, “working.” — Manhattan because when I go to Manhattan, I — you know, I stay at Trump Tower and I have to close up the whole city of Manhattan. So I go to Bedminster, which is a beautiful place, but it’s never a vacation. It’s working, mostly. Q Are you planning a trip to Bedminster over an extended period of time in August? Well, I hope not because I like working. I’d rather be right here. You know, but probably over a short period of time. A lot of times you go and they do a lot of work in the White House. For instance, the Obama administration worked out a brand-new air conditioning system for the West Wing and it was so good before they did the system. Now that they did the system, it’s freezing or hot in here. Q Can I rephrase my question? Yes. Q Will you be spending an extended period of time working in Bedminster during the month of August? Not extended, but for a short period of time. You know, meaning like less than a week. But again, I don’t — I do that, just officially — just to put that on record — I do that because when I go into Trump Tower, they close up 10 blocks around the building. And it’s Manhattan, New York City. It’s a big — I don’t want to inconvenience people. I don’t get any credit for that, but that’s okay. Whereas Bedminster, everybody — you know, it works out very easily. It’s a much easier — it’s a much easier thing. It’s a great place. But I would love to go to Manhattan. I just don’t like seeing the city closed up. I’ve had to suffer — living in Manhattan, I’ve had to suffer gravely as Presidents would come in and come out. And the entire city would be shut down. So I guess I understand it better than most, right? Thank you. Q You got the G7 summit coming up after that. We have the G7 coming up. Yes. We look forward to it. It will be in France. Q Any other stops planned? I don’t know. This was a stop which — this is a stop that we didn’t have planned, right here in the Oval Office — — with Guatemala. And again, thank you very much, Enrique. Thank you everybody. Q Would you put tariffs on wine before the G7, or would you wait to negotiate with Macron? Maybe before. Q Maybe before? Maybe before. END 4:17 P.M. EDT
Thank you very much. Thank you. Before I begin, I want to apprise everyone of an incident in the Strait of Hormuz today involving USS Boxer, a Navy amphibious assault ship. The Boxer took defensive action against an Iranian drone, which had closed into a very, very near distance, approximately 1,000 yards, ignoring multiple calls to stand down and was threatening the safety of the ship and the ship’s crew. The drone was immediately destroyed. This is the latest of many provocative and hostile actions by Iran against vessels operating in international waters. The United States reserves the right to defend our personnel, our facilities, and interests, and calls upon all nations to condemn Iran’s attempts to disrupt freedom of navigation and global commerce. I also call on other nations to protect their ships as they go through the Strait, and to work with us in the future. Thank you very much. I thought you should you know that. I’m honored to be here with Prime Minister Mark Rutte of the Netherlands — fantastic country; incredibly successful country — and so many of our Dutch friends who have come with Mark. I want to thank you all for being with us in the East Room of the White House. Thank you all for being here. I appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you also to Vice President Pence and Acting Secretary of Defense Richard Spencer for joining us. Thank you, Richard, Mike. Last month, Melania and I traveled to the United Kingdom and France to commemorate the 75th Anniversary of D-Day. Together, we paid tribute to every courageous patriot who fought to liberate Europe from the evil of Nazi rule. Today, on behalf of the American people, I will receive an American flag that flew aboard a ship carrying the first waves of United States service members to land in Normandy. Seventy-five years after that momentous day — and that is truly a momentous day; one of the most powerful, most important days in the history of our world — it is my honor to welcome this great American flag back home where it belongs. I want to thank the Prime Minister, as well as U.S. Ambassador Peter Hoekstra. Pete, thank you. Thank you very much, Peter. You’re doing a great job. And Dutch Ambassador Hendrik Schuwer, for being here today and for their devoted efforts to deepen the abiding ties between the United States and the Netherlands. Our relationship has never been closer than it is today. We are also profoundly moved to be joined by several incredible World War Two veterans who helped defeat the Nazis and save freedom for all humanity. With us is Jack Goldstein, who served in Europe during the war. Jack? Where’s Jack? Thank you, Jack. Thank you. Thank you very much, Jack. Along with Steven Melnikoff and Harold Angle, both veterans of the Normandy campaign. Thank you very much, fellas. And they went on to fight in the Netherlands. Thank you, fellas. That’s incredible. Thank you all three. You look great. Young guys. Thank you very much. This event would not be possible without the extraordinary generosity of the flag’s two donors from the Netherlands: Mr. Bert Kreuk, and his uncle and business partner, Mr. Theo Schols. And I want to thank you very much. Where are they? Thank you very much. That’s great. Very much, thank you. And thank you for preserving our history and for watching over the immortal legacy of our D-Day heroes. That’s what you did. Thank you. And I know it was expensive. Two rich people, I assume, right? Huh? I appreciate it. Thank you. On June 6, 1944, the flag we receive today flew aboard Landing Craft Control 60. And it was approached, and when it approached Utah Beach — I was there very recently with the First Lady, and it was something incredible to see. Commanding the ship was a young Navy lieutenant, two days shy of his 27th birthday, named Howard Vander Beek. Amid treacherous German minefields, raging winds, and rough seas, Lieutenant Vander Beek and his crew led an astonishing 19 waves of American troops and equipment to those very, very dangerous beaches. Through it all, this flag soared proudly above the waters of the English Channel, announcing the arrival of our American warriors. After completing his mission on D-Day, Lieutenant Vander Beek took the flag — now bearing the scars of German machinegun fire and stained, all over it, with dirt and diesel and blood. He carried it with him in his backpack for the remainder of the war and kept the flag until his death in 2014. Soon after, the flag was purchased at auction by Mr. Kreuk and Mr. Schols, whose relatives were among the hundreds of Dutch who perished in the German bombings of Rotterdam in 1940. These two gentlemen paid half a million dollars to obtain the flag, just so they could return it as a gift to the American people and to the United States of America. As they explained, they wanted to thank the United States for the extraordinary sacrifice our service members made to liberate their nation and all of Europe in World War Two. So nice. Thank you very much. So nice. Thousands of Americans gave their lives on D-Day, and many thousands more gave their lives to drive the Nazis from the Netherlands. Following today’s ceremony, the extraordinary flag will be displayed at the Smithsonian’s Museum of American History — and very proudly. With us this afternoon are Secretary of the Smithsonian, a friend of mine, Lonnie Bunch. Lonnie, thank you very much for being here. And Director of the Museum of American History, Anthea Hartig. Anthea, thank you very much. Thank you. And I know they will take great care of this priceless American artifact. Thank you very much for being here, both. I know they share Mr. Kreuk’s vision for the flag. As he said, it will tell visitors from around the world about the story of freedom. With their help, this wonderful flag will be preserved forever and ever in American history, as it should be. It will always be a reminder of the supreme sacrifice of our warriors, and the beautiful friendship between the Dutch and the American people. And now, I would like to introduce a very special man, a man I’ve gotten to know very well during our strong negotiations on trade and our negotiations on the military and NATO and all of the other things we’ve been talking about for so long, it seems like right now. A Prime Minister who is very, very popular in his country. A great gentleman. And you’re going to say a few words, and then Mr. Kreuk and Secretary Bunch will tell us more about the treasured gift that they presented us with. So I want to thank you all, and God bless America. Mr. Prime Minister? END 3:19 P.M. EDT
Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you very much. Please. Thank you. Well, this is a who’s who, Tamim, of business. Even you are impressed, and that’s pretty hard. But this really is. This is a great room. Many friends. And everybody I know and recognize just from reading about you and your great successes. I want to say that our country has never done better. We’re setting records. On Friday, we had the all-time — in the history of our stock market — the all-time highest number. And we intend to go a lot higher. I think we will be a lot higher than even what we’ve done. We have tremendous potential. There’s a lot of room for growth. And during the campaign, I’d talk about growth. And we’ve had great growth, but we’re going to have a lot more of it. And a lot of people in this room are going to be the reasons for that growth. And, Tamim, you’ve been a friend of mine for a long time, before I did this presidential thing, and we feel very comfortable with each other. And I have to say that the investments that you make in the United States — one of the largest in the world — but the investments that you make are very much appreciated. And I know the planes you’re buying and all of the other things you’re investing in. And I view it differently; I view it as jobs. Because for me, it’s jobs. And today, we set a new record for jobs. We’re setting it almost on a daily basis. We’re up to almost 160 million jobs. And that’s a statistic that is just so obvious and so — there are more people working — if you think, more people working in the United States today than at any day ever in our history. That’s a very important number. And it’s simple, but it’s probably as beautiful as we can do. Everybody in the room understands that very well. But I just want to thank you. We’re meeting tomorrow, and it’s going to be a very interesting meeting. Maybe we can do everything tonight. We don’t have to bother tomorrow. And that would be okay. We’ll save some good time. But I look forward to it. We have a big meeting with your representatives, and we have a lot to talk about. There are many things we’re going to be talking about, from defense to purchases and trade. And I know everything is going to be very positive. You’ve been a great ally, and you’ve helped us with a magnificent military installation and military airport, the likes of which people haven’t seen in a long while. And I understand there’s been another $8 billion invested. Thank goodness it was mostly your money, not ours. In fact, even better — it was all of their money, not ours. That’s even better. But you have been terrific, and you’ve been my great friend and I appreciate it. And I look forward to seeing you tomorrow. We’re going to have some very good talks. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you, everybody, for being here. Thank you.
Thank you. Wow, thank you very much. Please. Thank you very much. That’s so nice. That means you like us. And we like you. And it has been a great period of time for our two countries. I want to thank you, Ambassador Harris. We put you here recently because we thought it might be a spot where we need somebody with great talent, and you’ve displayed that in our military for many years. We really appreciate it very much. Thank you, Ambassador. You’ve led this embassy with outstanding vision and skill, and we deeply appreciate your efforts. And I tell you, many of the business people that I’ve met in this incredible country have told me very strongly that what we did with the Ambassador, that was just a tremendous move. And, you know, we’re talking about certain things. You probably have heard the things we’re talking about, and we’re going to make a visit today to the DMZ because — longstanding visit with President Moon. And I just want to see how that’s looking. And a lot of good things are happening with North Korea. I really believe that. A lot of good things. The relationship is very good. When I first came here, it was a disaster. It was a disaster. In my opinion, had President Obama or somebody like President Obama — for instance, my opponent in the last election — had it worked that way, I honestly believe you would have been at war with North Korea. I’ve said it loud and I’ve said it clear. And right now, as you know, we have no nuclear tests. We have no ballistic tests. We have gotten our hostages, our prisoners back, which we really appreciated, from Kim Jong Un — Chairman Kim. The remains are coming back as they get them, as they find them. The remains of our great heroes from the war. And we really appreciate that. And there’s a good — there’s a good feeling. There’s a good relationship. And, you know, I won’t even say “developing.” I just think we have a very good relationship — the two of us. I don’t know about beyond the two of us, but I can say the two of us. So we’ll see how it all goes. And, again, I’m going to the DMZ, and we are — I understand that they’re — they want to meet. And I’d love to say hello. It’s going to be very short, but we are in territory that’s very close. We don’t have to take long trips to countries. So it’s good for both of us. Let’s see what happens. They’re trying to work it out. Not so easy. I’m delighted to return to the beautiful city of Seoul — incredible city — this week for my second visit to South Korea as President. That’s a lot, when you think about it. I haven’t been President very long — two and a half years. How time flies. Today, it’s my distinct honor to join this very talented group of leaders, many of whom I recognize. I don’t know all of you. I know some of you, but I recognize most of you. Great leaders. Great businesspeople. You’re a talented group, and you’re from America and South Korea companies to discuss the critical economic relationship between the United States and South Korea. My thanks as well to Secretary Mnuchin and Secretary of State Under — we call them the “Under.” Sometimes the Under Secretary of States have tremendous — where is he? Where is our Under Secretary of State? Good. Congratulations. Great job. You’re doing a fantastic job. Thank you very much for being here. And if you have any questions later, Keith, come see me, because there could be plenty of questions. But they’re very happy with the job you’re doing. Thank you very much. And the job that our Secretary of State is doing is fantastic. Mike Pompeo. For decades, the U.S.-South Korea alliance has advanced peace and security in this region, and far beyond. Today, our partnership is stronger than ever before. Following this event, I’ll meet with President Moon to discuss many shared priorities, including enhancing our already robust economic ties. The United States is having probably the best economy we’ve ever had. We’re doing phenomenally. Many, many companies — including South Korea — but many companies are coming into the United States from other places throughout the world. Car companies, in particular. They’re going to Michigan. They’re going to Ohio and North Carolina and Pennsylvania, Florida. Over the past few days, President Moon and I have been in Osaka, Japan, for the G20 Summit. And I have to say that Prime Minister Abe did a fantastic job. It was a great summit. A lot of — a lot of good spirit. A lot of good will. And that brings, really, very importantly, the world leaders together, each, to discuss some of the most important economic opportunities and challenges facing our nations. And one-on-ones are very important when you have individual complaints. I’m sure most of you haven’t heard, but I met with President Xi of China. I know you didn’t hear about that. But we had, actually, a very good meeting. A really good meeting, I think. So we’re continuing with our discussions on a trade deal. We’ll see what happens. A good chance. During the summit, I shared the pro-growth policies that have helped the United States achieve extraordinary economic success and called on all G20 members to cooperate based on the principles of fairness and reciprocity. Such an important word. Maybe my favorite word of all is “reciprocity.” The United States and South Korea have made great progress in reducing our trade imbalance and unleashing new prosperity for both of our countries. And, as you heard, your great ambassador and our great ambassador say we’ve reduced the number to by about 60 percent, which is pretty — pretty great. Good for both countries, actually. Last year, we reduced the trade deficits of goods between the United States and South Korea by more than 20 percent, and that number is moving very rapidly along. And we announced a totally renegotiated United States-Korea trade deal, which went into effect this last January 1st. And that was something that looked like it wasn’t going to be happening, and we got it done. Good for both countries. Our upgraded agreement will benefit workers in both the United States and South Korea, and includes strong provisions to increase South Korea’s access to the finest American-made products, including automobiles, agricultural crops, medicines, and more. Under the terms of this deal, South Korea will double the number of American cars that can enter the market each year. So the car companies are very happy with it, and it gets to be just much more fair. We must remain vigilant and ensure that we keep moving forward toward a more balanced trade relationship and further reduce our trade deficit. Our countries also enjoy a thriving investment relationship. Since 2017, Korean investment in the United States has expanded by billions and billions of dollars. This includes Lotte Group’s recent investment of $3.1 billion in Louisiana. And Chairman Shin Dong-bin — I think he’s here. There you are. Such a young man. Look at that — — to have done such a good job. It’s incredible. How did you do that? Would you get up here please and speak? Beautiful job. Thank you very much. Fantastic job. We appreciate it. And we have a great working relationship. Your investment of $3.1 billion in Louisiana is going to be a great investment. You know that. So, congratulations. Thank you very much for being here. Korean Air and Boeing have also recently announced that Korean Air will acquire 30 brand new 787s — a great plane; Dreamliner — a deal worth over $9 billion. And Kee-hong Woo — where are you? Thank you very much. Thank you very much for being here. From Korean Air is here. And you’ve done a great job with Korean Air. Congratulations. Really great. And Eric John, President of Boeing Korea. Where’s Eric? Thank you, Eric. Good job. Good. Thank you. Great plane. Thank you both for being here. And congratulations. Hyundai, Samsung, and CJ, Doosan, and SK Group all here this morning. They were all here represented by their top people. And I really appreciate it. They’ve made very large investments in our country, including the companies represented in the room; they’ve created more than 50,000 brand new jobs in the United States. We have to tell that to the people of the United States. And it’s very important to tell them. There’s a lot of investment going back into the United States. And we hope that you’ll continue to expand. Could I ask you all to stand up — the three folks? Hyundai, Samsung, CJ, and SK. Where’s SK? Thank you very much. Congratulations. It’s a great job. I recognize all four of you, I must tell you. Very famous business leaders and very great business leaders. Thank you very much. I appreciate it. We’ll see you later. There’s never been a better time to invest, or do business, and create jobs in America. We passed the largest tax cut and reform in the history of our country, and eliminated more than 30,000 pages of job-killing regulations — a record. You don’t have any regulation problem, I know, in South Korea. Do you? You have any? We slashed our business tax rate from the highest in the developed world to one of the most competitive anywhere in the developed world. We were so high that it was very hard for people to really understand how they could do it. We’ve taken back hundreds of billions of dollars from overseas. We weren’t allowed to take that. That money was just — it was impossible to do. Both bureaucratically and tax wise, it was so expensive. Now we’re bringing in — Apple alone brought in $230 billion, and they’re spending it in the United States. Capital investment by businesses now can be 100 percent tax deductible — something that nobody knew. And, if you look, the one-year provision is something that nobody thought was — deducting expense in the first year — something nobody thought they’ve ever see, and it’s had a tremendous impact on the country. Unemployment in the United States is at the lowest level it’s been in 51 years. And we expected that level is even — that number is even going to get better, because there’s tremendous — companies are moving in. We have companies moving in, car companies moving in. In particular, car companies. We hadn’t had a plant built in years — in decades, actually. And now we have many plants being built all throughout the United States — cars. According to the World Economic Forum, our financial system, business dynamism, and labor market all rank number one in the world. That’s a great rank. And we were slipping badly, as you know. In fact, I just opened a LNG plant in Louisiana. It’s a $10 billion plant. And I think a couple of other folks in this room happen to be involved in that. But we also had tremendous Japanese investment. It’s a ten billion. It’s going to employ 10,000 jobs. It’s, I guess, one of the biggest plants I’ve ever seen. And right in Louisiana also. And they opened it. I hear it’s doing phenomenally well. It was beautiful. It was built on time, on budget, but it was help up for many, many years — for more than a decade — because they couldn’t get the permits. And I got in, I got them those permits. I didn’t know anybody. I don’t want to know anybody. All I wanted to do was I wanted to have them build that plant. And we got them the permits very quickly, through EPA and all of the other places that we had to get them. But that was being held up. It looked, actually, like it wasn’t going to happen, and I got it done. You look at Keystone Pipeline, the Dakota Access Pipeline — they were dead. They were really in trouble. Dakota Access had the worst of all worlds. It had built the pipeline, but it couldn’t connect it — okay? — because it had environmental problems. False environmental problems. Problems that shouldn’t have been a problem. But they had built it. And I was actually going to say maybe the country should have a piece of the action. Steve, we could have said, “Listen, give us half of the profits for the rest, and we’re going to give you that final permit.” Right? I could have done it. We can’t revert back to my business days. Can’t do that. But we got it approved for them, and we got the permits, and they were able to connect. And they immediately opened. And Keystone, as you know, is one of the biggest anywhere, and that’s been under consideration for a long time. And we got it approved in my first few days in office. The head of the big company, the pipeline company — they’re actually based in Canada, which — a little sad; it just means we have a very good relationship with Canada. We just made a deal with Canada and Mexico, which is a tremendous trade deal, and hopefully we’ll get that passed soon, in Congress. But the head probably said, “Gee, I couldn’t get it for years and years. I couldn’t get my permit. Now Trump gets elected; I get my permit.” And you people, as great businessmen, know what’s going to happen. He’s sitting there, and he will be inundated now with every consultant that worked on the project for the last 10 years, and they’re all going to want these massive fees. They’re going to want millions of dollars because they’re going to say that they did such a good job. But I never spoke to any of them. I don’t want to speak to any of them. They didn’t do a damn thing, and they’re going to get millions of dollars, right? And everyone in this room knows what I’m talking about. But it’s one of those things. We don’t want to have that situation happen. But we got Keystone approved. We got it approved early. And it’s going to be a tremendous pipeline. Economic growth is now over 3 percent. And for the first quarter — which is always our worst quarter; it’s always down around 1, less than 1 — it was 3.2 percent, which is shocking. We are taking in tremendous dollars from China with the tariffs of goods: $250 billion at 25 percent. That will remain under our deal until we have a new deal, and then we’ll see what happens, whether it’s more or less or whatever. We’ll see what happens. We were very close to having a deal with China. And then, unfortunately, things happened, and the deal didn’t happen. But we’re now back on track, so we’ll see what happens. Now we’re going to — we started it up. We had a very good meeting. We really had a great meeting yesterday. And I like President Xi a lot. I consider him a friend, and — but I like him a lot. I’ve gotten to know him very well. He’s a strong gentleman, right? Anybody that — he’s a strong guy, tough guy. Very smart. And loves China. And I love the United States. All of this is only the beginning to, really, want — I just wanted to have a group of the leaders. I didn’t know they were going to get — you’re not just South Korean leaders. You’re world-renowned leaders. You have done things that are incredible. I mean, some of the companies. I happened to fly over a building. It was one of the largest buildings I’ve ever seen: Samsung. Samsung. It was one of the largest buildings I’ve ever seen. And it was a manufacturing building. And you know what I’m talking about, right? I looked; I said, “What the hell is that?” It was acre on acre, except it was piled up. How tall is that building? Like 12 or 10? Ten stories? I want to see it. I want to see it. I want to get some ideas. Because this was laid up on top. We usually just go in one direction. And it was really great. And I must tell you also — I said, “What is that beautiful building?” And that was your great tower. Lotte Tower was beautiful. Love the design. I said, it’s pretty hard to miss it, right? We’re flying in. It wasn’t like, “Oh, gee, what’s that?” But I knew immediately. I knew it from even pictures. But that’s a beautiful tower, and I know it’s done very well. Congratulations. Beautiful job. It’s nice to build them nice, right? It doesn’t cost that much more. I tried to explain to friends of mine. I have a competitor in New York, and he builds very inexpensively. And then he wonders why we get higher rents and why we get higher condo prices. And I look at his building. He said, “What the hell is going on?” He has windows that are so little because he saves two dollars. He saves nothing. I mean, sometimes a wall is more expensive than a window. Sometimes brick and mortar is more expensive than glass. So you make them big. You have nice, big, fat windows, and you have certain things. But you folks have done a great job. Really great. Thank you very much. But this is all just the beginning. We’re going to have a lot of great relationship with South Korea. I think I’ve done a good job in stability. I can say the Ambassador came. When he met me at the airport yesterday, he said when he first came here, people were nervous. A lot of bad things were happening. A lot of bad things with missiles flying over Japan. And they weren’t too thrilled in Japan either, by the way. And now you don’t have that. And people aren’t feeling the same way that they felt when I became President. When I became President — it’s hard to believe, two and a half years ago, I became President. And the biggest — probably the biggest thing was Kim Jong Un and the problems that you were having with them. And a lot of bad things could’ve happened. Could’ve gone very bad, very fast. And, as you know, we took a very tough stand, and so did he. And then, all of a sudden, we came together, and I was asking other people, “Have you ever spoken to him?” They said no. I said, “How can you not speak to him?” They didn’t speak to him. You don’t lose anything by speaking. And we did, ultimately, speak, and we got along great. But it’s a lot different now. The ambassador was telling me — he said he got here and people were very nervous. They were having drills — many, many drills all the times. Drills, drills. And — to get under cover. And you don’t have that anymore. So let’s see what happens. Nothing is final. Got a long way to go. But this a situation that could’ve been really bad. You know, at home, they think that I’m a, sort of, a tough warmonger. I’m a warmonger. They thought that, when I got elected, within in the first year we’d be in World War Three. And I’m really the opposite of a warmonger. But we built our military now. It’s stronger than it’s ever been. Brand new. I mean, we spent one-point- — if you think, we spent $716 billion this year; $700 billion last year. This year, we’re going for, actually, more than that, potentially. We have brand new fighter jets, brand new ships, brand new military equipment for the soldiers. Very important. Can never forget that. All brand new. We were very depleted from fighting wars all over. Fighting in the Middle East for 19 years, in the Middle East, just being there. And we’re now — you probably heard we knocked out the caliphate as soon I got in. I knocked them out very quickly. Very quickly. Once we started, it was a very quick operation. We have the greatest military in the world. There’s nobody close. We have the greatest equipment in the world. Missiles and planes and everything else. The F-35 fighter jet, which is the hot one now. I was talking to one the pilots. These guys are central casting. There’s nobody in Hollywood that looks like these people, with their crew cut, boom under the eyes — the whole thing. I speak to this guy, and I said, “How good is the F-35?” “Very good, sir.” “How does it compare to so and so?” You know, another country. “Well, they have a basic problem, sir. They can’t see it. You could be right next them; they can’t see it.” And I said, “That sounds good.” They say it’s really hard to win when they can’t see the plane. It’s really stealth, and it’s really great. And, by the way, you’re ordering those planes, in addition to a lot of Boeings. But you’re ordering those planes. So I just want to tell you that you’re our friend. I’ve had a tremendous relationship. President Moon has treated me and our country with great respect, which I appreciate. Because we’re doing a lot for you. We’re doing a lot. We’re spending a lot of money, and money that hasn’t been reimbursed. And they’re agreeing to reimburse us for some of this, because the cost is astronomical. We have 42,000 soldiers. We’ve had them for many years. And we’re working on that, and it’s really working along well. But most importantly, we’re doing the job. And you’re going to have a very safe country, and it’s already a great country. And it’s an honor to be with you, especially so many people that I know and that I recognize. A lot of people don’t. You know, a lot of people don’t knew these great business genius. They don’t understand that that means. But we understand what business genius is. People say, “How come so and so is always successful?” Because he’s a business genius. It’s one of those things. It’s a talent. Just like baseball is a talent, or golf is a talent, or anything. We had, recently, the U.S. Women’s Open at my course in Bedminster, New Jersey. And I think 9 of the top 10 finishers were from South Korea. Do you know that? Nine of the top ten. I said, “What’s going on over here?” So I want to just thank you. You have a great country, and it’s an honor to be with you. Thank you all very much. Thank you. Q Mr. President, is Chairman Kim going to meet you at the DMZ today? Has he committed? Well, we’ll see. He very much wants to. I’m going there. This was when I told him we were going, that I will see him. But there was — we’ll try to work it out. Very short. It will be a very short — very short. Virtually a handshake, but that’s okay. A handshake means a lot. Thank you very much. END 10:45 A.M. KST
Thank you. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. It’s been a really great period of time. I’ll be leaving now, as you know, for South Korea. Some of you will be coming with us. I understand that we may be meeting with Chairman King — Kim. And we’ll find out. We spoke with the people. Kim Jong Un was very receptive. He responded. And so, we’ll see. Because tomorrow we’re going to the DMZ. I said, “While I’m there, I’ll shake his hand.” We get along. There’s been no nuclear tests. There’s been no long-range ballistic tests. Gave us back our hostages, which was great. And a lot of good things are happening over there. So I let him know we’ll be there, and we’ll see. I mean, I don’t — I can’t tell you exactly, but they did respond very favorably. I want to thank everyone for being here today. That’s a lot of press. A lot of press is outside, too. They’re less happy than you are. But the G20 Summit has been fantastic. Prime Minister Abe has done an incredible job, as he always does. And he hosted it very beautifully. You know where it’s going to be next year, I think. Do most of you know where it’s going to be next year? It’s going to be in a very great part of the world. And we’ll be announcing exactly what’s happening. But this was a really good summit and really well done — so professionally done. This marks my third visit to Japan as President. Melania and I are — we’ve just left Tokyo a short while ago, as you know — a very short while ago — where we were the first state guests to their Majesties the Emperor and Empress of Japan. And that was thrilling. First time in 202 years that an event like that took place, so that was quite exciting. And I’m thrilled to be back. I always like being back in Japan. We’ve had a great relationship. We’ve never been closer to Japan than we are right now. Over the past two days, leaders from the world’s largest economies have convened here at Osaka, which is a tremendous city. You fly over and you say, “Does it ever stop?” It’s big. It’s beautiful. It’s clean. And it’s really a — the job they do with industrial manufacturing and lots of other things is really incredible. We had a very productive conversation with a number of the leaders — not only nations but business leaders here in Japan. And together, we put together a lot of ideas and a lot of challenges for the future that we’ll be able to meet and get things going very well. Our meetings also touched on women’s economic empowerment. You probably saw that Ivanka Trump was — she’s done a fantastic job, and also a fantastic job in getting jobs for a lot of people within our country — almost 10 million people. The importance of resilient and secure infrastructure, we discussed that at great length. The need to uphold the rule of law. And the critical importance of achieving a future for international trade that works all of the time for all of the people. In addition to the working sessions — we had a lot of working sessions; many of you were at the working sessions — I had tremendous bilateral meetings with many of the heads of state. And just some of them are Australia, Japan, India, Germany, Russia, Brazil, Saudi Arabia, China, Turkey, UK. And I met with Mexico also — with the representatives of Mexico who have done an incredible job. They’ve really stepped up to the plate. I appreciate it and I want to thank them. They have 6,000 troops at their southern border, by Guatemala, and it’s very hard to come in now. And they have — they just ordered — really, it was somewhat of a surprise — 16,000 troops at our southern border. Their immigration laws are very strong. Ours are a disaster. Ours are a disgrace to our country. We have loopholes and asylum that — we could fix the asylum very quickly. We could get rid of and fix the loopholes, but we could get rid of the loopholes, and we would have absolutely no problem at the border. But if you watch the debates — if you call them debates, or whatever they were — they don’t really — I think they want open borders, I guess — even though, four years ago, they wanted walls to be built. I heard we just had another judge rule against us on a section of wall, and that’s a disgrace. We’ll appeal it right away. Ninth Circuit, as usual. They go right into that Ninth Circuit. The good news: I put a lot of judges in, and a number of them are in the Ninth Circuit now. And it’s very unfair. It’s very unfair when a judge can do what they do, where a judge in a certain area can close down a country. But we also had a big victory last week with the wall. We had a judge in D.C. who gave us a very big victory. So we’re building a lot of wall. But we had a ruling just yesterday, late, from a judge in the Ninth Circuit, again. So we’re immediately appealing it, and we think we’ll win the appeal. There was no reason that that should’ve happened. And a lot of wall is being built, and, again, Mexico is doing a real job. Our Border Patrol, they’ve done incredible work. And ICE is — they’re just special people. Law enforcement, generally, is just — is special. So, with that, I just want to say that these meetings have been great. The one that I guess most people are interested in is China. We had a great meeting. President Xi. And we’ve known each for as long as I’m President. And many of you were at the event in China a year ago, when — I’ve never seen anything like it. The — it was beautiful. We talked about it; we dinner last night, President Xi and a number of us. And it was something really incredible, in Beijing. The red carpet was rolled out for all of us — for this country, for our country. And we had a great meeting, and we will be continuing to negotiate. And I promised that, for at least the time being, we’re not going to be lifting tariffs on China. We won’t be adding an additional tremendous amount of — we have, I guess, $350 billion left, which could be taxed or it could be tariffed. And we’re not doing that. We’re going to work with China on where we left off, to see if we can make a deal. China is going to start — they’re going to be consulting with us, and they’re going to start spending money, even during the negotiation, to our farmers, our great farmers in the Midwest. I call them the “great patriots” because that’s what they are. They’re patriots. And China is going to be buying a tremendous amount of food and agricultural product, and they’re going to start that very soon, almost immediately. We’re going to give them lists of things that we’d like them to buy. Our farmers are going to be a tremendous beneficiary. You know, if you look at farmers — for 15 years, before I came into the — into this position, farms and farmers have had a hard time. If you look at that graph, it was — it was down, fairly steeply down. And a lot of it was because NAFTA was a terrible deal. And we have — I spoke with Nancy Pelosi last night about the USMCA — that’s Mexico and Canada. And it’s now before them, and they’ll have to make a decision. But that’s one that the farmers love, the manufacturers love, the unions love. It’s a great deal for this country. And NAFTA was, I think, one of the worst trade deals ever made. Maybe the WTO was worse. The WTO, from the time that happened in ’95 — from the time that happened, China became like a rocket ship. It was pretty much flat-lined, and then, all of a sudden, they joined the WTO and they became — they went — I mean, they went through the roof. And very much to our liability, it’s — we lost tremendous amounts of money over the — from that time. I mean, we just lost tremendous amounts. It was a terrible deal, the WTO — world trade. And if you look at NAFTA, NAFTA has been a disaster for our country. The USMCA is a great deal for our country. I think Canada is happy, but they’re not happy like we’re happy, but they’re very happy. It’s a good deal for Canada, a good deal for Mexico. They want it. Mexico just approved it in full. Canada is waiting for us to approve it. I was with the Prime Minister — just left him a little while ago — and they’re thrilled with the deal, and we’re thrilled. Everybody wants it. And hopefully it will be a bipartisan deal. I view that. I told that to Nancy Pelosi. I said, “View this as a bipartisan deal,” because a lot of the Democrats want it, especially, I would say, the farmers, but, really, the industrial areas also. The unions — we’ve got things on wages and we’ve got things on the environment that few people have ever been able to get into an agreement. And it’s a very big deal. It’s a very big deal. And it’s a great deal. Tremendous support. So they have to put it up for a vote. And I think you’ll get a great vote in the House and you’ll get a great vote in the Senate. And you’ll have a tremendous trade deal between the United States and Canada and Mexico. And it’s going to be something very special. So we spend a lot of time with a lot of countries. We do business with a lot of them. Australia is an example. With Japan, we’re negotiating with them because they send us millions of cars and we send them wheat. Doesn’t work. But what happens is Japan is — you probably saw some of the things they’re doing — but they’re opening up many car companies and factories and plants throughout our country, especially in Michigan. We have a lot of activity in Ohio. Beyond Japan activity, we have a lot of activity now where companies are coming back to our country. We’re the hot show. We’re the hottest show in town. We’re the hottest show in the world right now. Our economy is the best. One thing that every leader — virtually every leader that I dealt with said is that, “Congratulations. It’s incredible what’s happened to the American economy.” We’re the best economy in the world. And it’s something. And it started from Election Day. I put it out yesterday because we took a tremendous boost from — the day after I got elected, the stock market went crazy, from that point until essentially now. I think we hit, in certain of the markets, we hit the all-time high again for many, many times. I can’t tell you what it was, but many, many times we broke the record. And we’re — you know, our stock market is great. Our jobs are great. We have the best job numbers, essentially, we’ve ever had. In some categories, definitely we’ve ever had. The minimum, you could say, is in 51 years, but it’s really more than that, and now it’s going to be more than that. African American, Asian American — you saw that — Hispanic American: the best numbers in history — the history of our country. We have the lowest unemployment numbers. Best numbers. And many others too. Blue-collar workers are doing fantastic. They’re the biggest beneficiary of the tax cuts, the blue collar. Blue collar. You know, we talk about for the rich; it’s really for everybody. And it’s also for big companies where they’re moving here. And remember who owns the stocks. Because the people that own the stock, it’s not the big companies; it’s the people with 401s whose numbers are at 60 percent and 70 percent and 42 percent, and all different numbers that are tremendously high — where the other spouse thinks that the spouse that’s investing in the 401 is a super genius. But those 401s are very high. And if you listen to what I’ve been listening to — and we’re not going to devote anytime to it — but with that kind of an attitude, their 401s are going to crash and the market would crash because, with what they want to do, you would crash the market, and the amount of wealth that would be lost would be incredible. But I’d rather wait until later in the campaign to say that because, to be honest with you, I want them to go and take these policies and bring them up. I don’t want them to change them anytime soon. Let them go have a good time. But it’s been very interesting to watch what’s happening. Actually, I found it very interesting. So, with that, we’ll take a few questions and then I’m heading out to South Korea. And I may or may not see Kim Jong Un. But we’ll be heading out to South Korea; spend about a day and a half there with President Moon, who is a really good guy. He was here too, as you know. I saw him. I met with him also. And we’ll see what happens. Please, John. Q Mr. President, thank you so much for joining us here. Yes. Q We all appreciate it. It’s always good to have a chance to ask questions of you directly. Can you tell us a little more about how this China deal may work going forward? Because Chinese officials have told Fox News that they will not make any concessions until all of the tariffs have been lifted. They also want relief on Huawei. They want it taken off the black list. They might want you to stop pursuing extradition of Meng Wanzhou. Can you tell us how you see all of this unfolding? And if you do meet Kim Jong Un at the DMZ tomorrow, would you step across the border into North Korea? Sure, I would. I would. I’d feel very comfortable doing that. I would have no problem. With respect to China, basically we agreed today that we were going to continue the negotiation — which I ended a while back — and we’re going to continue the negotiation. We agreed that I would not be putting tariffs on the $325 billion that I would have the ability to put on if I wanted; that — where, you know, we’re fairly advanced, depending where you want to look at and where you want to start. Pretty advanced. We discussed — we did discuss numerous other things. We mentioned Huawei. I said, “We’ll have to save that until the very end. We’ll have to see.” One of the things I will allow, however, is — a lot of people are surprised — we send and we sell to Huawei a tremendous amount of product that goes into the various things that they make. And I said that that’s okay, that we will keep selling that product. These are American companies, John, that make product. And that’s very complex, by the way. Highly scientific. And in some cases, we’re the ones that do it and we’re the only ones that do it. We’re the only ones with the technology. What we’ve done in Silicon Valley is incredible actually. And nobody has been able to compete with it. And I’ve agreed — and pretty easily — I’ve agreed to allow them to continue to sell that product so American companies will continue. And they were having a problem. The companies were not exactly happy that they couldn’t sell because they had nothing to do with whatever was potentially happening with respect to Huawei. So I did do that. We talked about education and students. Somebody was saying it was harder for a Chinese students to come in. And that’s something that if it were — it somebody viewed it that way, I don’t. We want to have Chinese students come and use our great schools, our great universities. They’ve been great students and tremendous assets. But we did discuss it. It was brought up as a point, and I said that will be just like anybody else, just like any other nation. And we’re actually going to a point where, you know, we’re looking that if you graduate from a college, because our great companies — we talk about Silicon Valley and other places — we have a problem in this — in our country that you graduate number one in your class from the best school in the country, and they say you have to leave; we can’t keep them. And we’re going to make it — we’re going to call it the “smart person’s waiver.” But we’re going to make it so that they can not only stay but maybe they have access to green cards. We want to keep these people here. We have to keep — yeah, go ahead, John. Q But are you concerned that — as they did before — China took it most of the way down the road and then say — Sure. Q — we’re going to pull back ? That could happen. But we’re holding on tariffs and they’re going to buy farm product. So, you know — so — but that could happen, John. This doesn’t mean there’s going to be a deal, but they would like to make a deal. I can tell you that. And if we could make a deal, it would be a very historic event. You know, we’ve never really had a deal with China. We have — we’ve had tremendous deficits. Tremendous amounts of money was put into China — $500 billion a year. And I mean, you know, not just surplus and deficit. I’m talking about real, hard cash. And it should have never, ever been allowed to have happened for all of our Presidents over the last number of years. Go ahead, please. Q Yes, Mr. President, Steve Herman from the Voice of America. After your discussions with Prime Minister Abe here, are you still thinking about withdrawing from the U.S.-Japan Security Treaty? And what did the Prime Minister say to you about that? No, I’m not thinking about that at all. I’m just saying that it’s an unfair agreement. And I’ve told him that for the last six months. I said, “Look, if somebody attacks Japan, we go after them and we are in a battle — full force in effect.” We are locked in a battle and committed to fight for Japan. If somebody should attack the United States, they don’t have to do that. That’s unfair. That’s the kind of deals we made. That’s — every deal is like that. I mean it’s almost like we had people that they didn’t either care or they were stupid. But that’s the kind of deals we have. That’s just typical. But I have been — I told him — I said we’re going to have to change it. Because — look, nobody is going to attack us, I hope. But, you know, should that happen — it’s far more likely that it could be the other way — but should that happen, somebody attacks us, if we’re helping them, they’re going to have help us. And he knows that. And he’s going to have no problem with that. Yes, please. Q Thank you, Mr. President. I actually have a Russia question but I wanted to quickly clarify: Is Meng Wanzhou’s case also going to need to wait until the very end? Or is it possible the U.S. would drop the extradition effort? When what? On what? Q Ms. Meng from Huawei. The top financial . We didn’t discuss Ms. Meng. We didn’t — that was not discussed. We did discuss Huawei but we didn’t discuss her situation. Q Okay. Thank you. On Russia, respectfully, it seemed like maybe you didn’t really mean it when you said yesterday, “Don’t meddle in our elections, Mr. President.” And then you guys both started laughing. Well, I did say it. You’re to have to take a look at the words. I did say it. And we had a discussion. We had a great — actually, we had a great discussion, President Putin and myself. I thought it was really a tremendous discussion. I think they’d like to do trade with the United States. And they have great product. They have great land. They have very rich land. And a lot of oil, a lot of minerals, and the kind of things that we like. And I can see trade going out with Russia. We could do fantastically well. We do very little trade with Russia, which is ridiculous, frankly. So I could see some very positive things happening. Yeah, but as per your question though, I did say it and I did discuss it a little bit after that too. Yeah, please. Q Thank you, Mr. President. Yesterday, former President Jimmy Carter suggested that your presidency is illegitimate and that you only got the White House with help from Russia. Your reaction to that, sir? Russia. Russia. Russia. Isn’t it crazy? Okay, Jimmy Carter — look, he was a nice man. He was a terrible President. He’s a Democrat. And it’s a typical talking point. He’s loyal to the Democrats, and I guess you should be. But as everybody now understands, I won not because of Russia, not because of anybody but myself. I went out — I campaigned better, smarter, harder than Hillary Clinton. I went to Wisconsin. I went to Michigan the night of the vote. I had 32,000 people at 1 o’clock in the morning on Election Day. I won Michigan. I won Wisconsin. I won Pennsylvania. I won states that traditionally haven’t been won by a Republican. For many years haven’t been won by a Republican. And this had nothing to do with anybody but the fact that I worked harder and much smarter than Hillary Clinton did. Now, I’ll say this: Jimmy Carter — I was surprised that he would make a statement. I saw it. It was not a big thing but I saw the statement. And it’s — you know, a lot of Democrats like to make that statement. He’s been trashed within his own Party. He’s been badly trashed. I felt badly for him because if you look over the years, his Party has virtually — he’s like the forgotten President. And I understand why they say that. He was not a good President. Look at what happened with Iran. That was a disaster. What Iran did to him — they tied him up in knots. The reason Ronald Reagan probably because President. So, you know, it’s a democrat talking point. Yeah, please. Go ahead. Jim. Q Yes. Mr. President, if I could follow up on the question about your comments with Vladimir Putin — Sure. Q — about Russia meddling. You did seem to be joking there with the Russian President. Are we taking that to be wrong? No. Q And what is it with your coziness with some of these dictators and autocrats at these summits? With Mohammad Bin Salman, the Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia, when you were asked about the case of Jamal Khashoggi, you did not respond to that question in front of the Saudi Crown Prince. I don’t know that anybody asked me. Q Were you afraid of offending him on that subject? No, not at all. I don’t really care about offending people. I sort of thought you’d know that. Q Well, you passed up an opportunity there. And, by the way, congratulations. I understand your book — is it doing well? Q It’s doing very well, Mr. President. Really? Q I’ll get you an autographed copy. Good. Send it. I want to see it. Q Yes, sir. Yeah. Send me a copy. No, I get along with everybody — except you people, actually. I get along with a lot of people. I have a tremendous relationship with President Xi. Nobody else would have the deal that we have. We’re getting tens of billions of dollars from China coming in. A lot of things are happening. And despite that, we’re moving along towards something that could be very historic. But I get along with President Putin. I get along with Mohammad from Saudi Arabia. Look, I spoke to Saudi Arabia when the oil prices, a year ago, were getting very high. And I wasn’t so nice. And I said, “You got to get some more oil into the system because what’s happening is no good.” And they did. And the people are driving at, you know, very low numbers right now. You haven’t seen. In the old days, you’d have spikes where the gasoline went to $5 and more, and it wasn’t so good. But I also get along with people that would be perceived as being very nice. You have a lot of very nice leaders of countries. I was with — Q But, Mr. President, isn’t — I was with — wait a minute. I was with Prime Minister May today. I was with so many. You take a look. New head of Australia. Look at Japan — Abe. Prime Minister Abe is a fine — they’re all fine, as far as I’m concerned. Some are stronger than others. Some are tougher than others. And a lot of people — Q Mr. President, but if I may, though, Mr. President, on the case of Jamal Khashoggi, you have a lot of journalists in this room who object to what appears to be the Saudi government’s complicity and perhaps orchestration of the assassination and dismembering of a journalist. Yeah. Q And when you were given the opportunity to call Mohammad Bin Salman out on that, you did not do it. Did you do it privately? And do you agree that it is despicable for a government to kill a journalist in that fashion? Yes, I do. I think it’s horrible. Or anybody else, by the way. Q Yeah. But I think it’s horrible. And, if you look, and look into Saudi Arabia and you see what’s happening, 13 people or so have been prosecuted. Others are being prosecuted. They’ve taken it very, very seriously, and they will continue to. And I’ve let everybody know I’m not — I’m very unhappy about that whole event. But if you look at what’s going on — and right now, within Saudi Arabia, they’re prosecuting additional people. There’s a lot of things happening. At the same time, I will also say — and nobody said — nobody, so far, has pointed directly a finger at the future King of Saudi Arabia. I will say I spoke to his father, Jim. I spoke to his father at great length. They’ve been a terrific ally. They’re creating millions of jobs in this country. They’re ordering equipment, not only military equipment, but $400 billion worth of — and, actually, even more than that over a period time — worth of different things. And with that being said, I’m extremely angry and unhappy about a thing like that taking place. But, as of this moment, more than 13 people are being prosecuted. And I hear the number is going to be going up. But it’s a good question. Yes, please. Q Thank you, Mr. President. I’m Ching-Yi Chan with Shanghai Media Group. It’s very good to note that you averted the further escalation of trade tension with China. And can you share some details of your interaction with President Xi this time? And also, if I may, another quick question on North Korea. Do you think it’s possible that there will be a third one-on-one summit with Chairman Kim — Oh, sure. Q — within this year? Oh, it might happen tomorrow. I mean, to be honest. We won’t call it a summit. We’ll call it a handshake, if it does happen. I don’t know that it will, but it could happen. I know I think he’d like to do it, and I wouldn’t mind doing it at all. I’m going to be — I’m literally visiting the DMZ. And so — but I will — as per your question about President Xi, he’s a brilliant leader, he’s a brilliant man. And you know better than I, he’s probably considered to be one of the great leaders in 200 years, in China. And we just have a very — he’s strong; he’s tough. But he’s good. We have a very good relationship. And I said, you know, “We can’t have it where the United States loses this kind of money for the privilege of building up China. It has to be a fair deal.” And he understands that. But, as he said, “Nobody ever came to us.” It’s true. No other President came to him. This would’ve — my presidency could be a lot easier, not only for that, but for many other reasons. It’d be a lot easier. But I don’t want it to be easy. It’s a point in time. I have a chance to do things that nobody else has ever done. So we’re making a deal with China, or we’re attempting. And if we don’t, we’ll go back into — you know, we have a tremendous ripe field of tremendous money that would be coming into our country. But I have a feeling that over a period of time — and, again, I’m not rushed, and I told him that I want to get the deal right. It’s extremely — I wouldn’t even say complicated, but very intricate. But, in the meantime, I think our farmers are going to end up being the great beneficiary. And what I did with the farmers — because they did lose a certain amount of money — I went to Sonny Perdue, who is our Secretary of Agriculture. I said, “Sonny, how much money — in the best year — did China spend on our farms, in our farms, buying?” He said, “The best year, about $16 billion.” I said, “Okay, well, we’re taking in much more than that now every year in tariffs.” And I took $16 billion out of those tariffs, and — essentially out of those tariffs — and we’re distributing it among farmers who have been hurt because they have been used as a pawn so that China could get a good deal. But, in the end, the farmers are going to be the biggest beneficiary. But I’ve made up for the fact that China was, you know, targeting our farmers. Because they know the farmers like me, and I like them. I love them. And they sort of love me, I guess, when you get right down to it. And it was $16 billion — billion. That’s a lot of money. But I took it out the tariff money essentially, and we are in the process of distributing it. The farmers could not be happier, other than — they’re unusual. I had them around a table, many of the farmers, and — about five weeks ago — and they said, “We don’t want money. We want just a level playing field.” I said, “You’re right.” Most groups want money. They’ll take — any way you want to give it to them they’ll take. The farmers are in a class by themselves in so many ways. They don’t want subsidies. They don’t want a handout. All they want to do is have a level playing field. They’re unbelievable people, and as I said, they’re unbelievable patriots. Jon. Q Thank you, Mr. President. First a quick follow-up. You’ve made this very public invitation to Kim Jong Un. Will it be a bad sign if he doesn’t show up? No. Of course, I thought of that because I know if he didn’t, everybody is going to say, “Oh, he was stood up by Chairman Kim.” No, I understood that. It’s very hard to — he follows my Twitter. Q He does? And it’s very hard — Q He follows you on Twitter? I guess so, because we got a call very quickly. A lot of people follow it. But, you know, they’ve contacted us and they’d like to see if they can do something. And we’re not talking about for, you know, extended. Just a quick hello. And we get along. I get along with him and I get along with other people. Like, you know, for instance, on Jim’s question, it’s a fair question, but I really have great relationships with everybody. I think — you know, I said a long time ago that maybe I’ll be a sleeper on foreign policy. And if you look at what’s happened on foreign policy — now, we are working on Iran and we’ll see what happens. I think they’d like to make a deal. I think they’d be very smart to want to make a deal, but we’re going to see what happens. I’m okay. I have all the time in the world. They’re doing very poorly. They were doing — they were very brutal when I first came in. Eighteen sites of confliction, meaning, where they were behind. But I think on foreign policy, if you look at what’s happening — and the other thing that’s happening is we’re not being taken for suckers anymore. I mean, we have countries where we’d lose on defending them, because we defend a tremendous percentage of the world. And they don’t pay us for it. And then, on top of it, we lose money with that same country on trade. And it’s all changing. And they understand it’s changing. And they expect it to change. They can’t believe. Honestly, like I’d ask Prime Minister Abe — I said, “How did this happen, where you send us billions and billions of dollars’ worth of cars and other things, and we send you practically nothing?” He said, “Nobody ever complained.” Same thing with China. I said, “You know, you send a car to us. We charge you essentially nothing. It’s 2.5 percent, but basically you don’t have to — there are ways around that. So you send a car to us, and you pay nothing. We send a car to you, made in the United States, and we have to pay 45 percent tariff. How did that happen? He said, “We just kept lifting it, lifting it, lifting it.” I mean, they’re being honest with me. “We just kept lifting it, and nobody called.” But I call. I call. Go ahead, Jon. Q And I want to ask you about the debate. You clearly saw at least some of the Democratic debate. Yeah. Q I’m sure you saw the exchange between Joe Biden and Kamala Harris — I did. Q — on the issue of federal busing — federally mandated busing. Biden thought that was a bad policy. He tried to stop it. Kamala Harris said it was an important part of desegregation, including in her own experience. Where do you stand on that issue of federally mandated busing? Well, first of all, before I get into that, I thought that she was given too much credit. He didn’t do well, certainly, and maybe the facts weren’t necessarily on his side. I think she was given too much credit for what she did. It wasn’t that outstanding. And I think probably he was hit harder than he should’ve been hit — Biden. I thought he was hit actually harder. And as far as that, I will tell you in about four weeks, because we’re coming out with certain policy that’s going to be very interesting and very surprising, I think, to a lot of people. Jennifer, do you have a question? Q But do you think Kamala Harris would be a tough opponent for you, given what you saw in that debate? You never know who’s going to be tough. You never know. One that you think is going to be tough turns out to be not much. And sometimes you think one — and I’ve seen it. Because, look, I had 17 — we had, actually, a total of 18. A lot of people think 17. Governor of Virginia — remember? Add the Governor of Virginia. Wasn’t there long — previous governor. But of the 18, you know, many were — all their lives, they wanted to be politicians. I never thought about being a politician until about two days before I decided to run. A little before that, but not too much before. And they — you know, you looked at some of them, they’re very talented. You look at their résumés, it’s like great. And, sometimes, the ones that I thought would be the toughest were not the toughest at all. I mean, I could write a book. I should write a book. But some of the people that I did in the Republican — because we had sort of a similar thing. We had 18 instead of — I guess they have 24 or 25. But some of the ones that I thought would be absolutely — absolutely, without question, the toughest, turned out — I didn’t they were tough at all. Others that a lot of people said weren’t tough, they were tough. I think she was given far too much credit for what she did. That was so out of the can what she said. That thing was right out of a box. And I thought that he didn’t respond great. I wouldn’t say it was — this was not Winston Churchill we’re dealing with, okay? But it wasn’t — it wasn’t, I don’t think, nearly as bad as they portended it to be. Jennifer, go ahead. Q Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you. Q Could I clarify your negotiations and what you agreed to with China on Huawei? Sure. Q Did you agree that Huawei can sell to the U.S. or that U.S. companies can sell to Huawei? U.S. companies can sell their equipment to Huawei. I’m talking about equipment where there is no great national emergency problem with it. But the U.S. companies can sell their equipment. So we have a lot of the great companies in, Silicon Valley and based in different parts of the country, that make extremely complex equipment. We’re letting them sell to Huawei. Q And then, on Turkey, sir, will Turkey face sanctions if it goes ahead with the S-400 purchases? Okay, so Turkey is an interesting case — because there’s another one, Jim, that I get along with very well, and he’s a tough cookie, okay? Right? President Erdogan. He’s tough, but I get along with him. And maybe that’s a bad thing, but I think it’s a really good thing. Because, frankly, he wanted to wipe out — he has a big problem with the Kurds, as everyone knows. And he had a 65,000-man army at the border, and he was going to wipe out the Kurds, who helped us with ISIS. We took out the caliphate. We have 100 percent of the caliphate. And I called him and I asked him not to do it. They are, I guess, natural enemies of his or Turkey’s. And he hasn’t done it. They were lined up to go out and wipe out the people that we just defeated the ISIS caliphate with, and I said, “You can’t do that.” You can’t do it. And he didn’t do it. So I have a relationship. But let me tell you — so he goes out during the Obama administration; he wants to buy our Patriot missile. Right? They wouldn’t sell it to him. He wants to buy — even though he’s a member of NATO, and, in theory, he could be an ally if he respected the President, and he’s got a big army, and he’s — you know, they’re fighters. Turkey is — big fighters. And we’re working on Idlib Province together because he doesn’t want to see 3 million people killed, and neither do I — in Syria. But — and I mentioned that. That was another thing I mentioned, folks, to President Putin. I said, “Please, take it easy with Idlib.” Because, you know, they’ve been encircling that. I think if I didn’t put out a statement six months ago, that would’ve been catastrophic. But they have 30,000 terrorists in Idlib Province. You have 3 million people. And, you know, getting terrorists is okay, but you don’t want to kill 3 million people or a million people to get the terrorists. So, anyway — so we get along great. But what happened with Turkey — and I will tell you when it’s fair and when it’s not fair. He wanted to buy the Patriot missile. President Obama’s group said no. He kept wanting to buy it. They kept saying no, no, no. Couldn’t buy it. Now, he needed it for defense. He needed it. So he then went to Russia and he bought the S-400. Made a deal to buy it because he couldn’t get it. They wouldn’t allow him to buy it. They wouldn’t allow it. This administration, meaning this administration previous to mine, would not let him buy it. So he goes out, he goes to Russia, and he makes a deal for the S-400. And let’s assume it’s not nearly as good, but he made a deal. He paid them money — a lot of money. Put up a lot of money. And he bought it. As soon as he bought it, people went back to him, from our country, and they said, “Listen, we don’t want you to use that system,” because it’s not the NATO system, et cetera, et cetera — you know all the reasons. “We don’t want you to use that system. Do us a favor — we’ll sell you the Patriot.” He said, “It’s too late. I already bought it.” There was nothing he could do; he already bought it. In the meantime, he bought over a hundred F-35s, the greatest fighter jet in the world. It’s stealth. You can’t see it. It’s real hard to beat something when you can’t see it. But he bought over a hundred. I think he bought 116. But he bought over a hundred. A lot. And there’s options for more. And now he wants delivery. He’s paid a tremendous amount of money, up front to Lockheed — our company, our jobs, everything. And now they’re saying he’s using the S-400 system, which is incompatible with our system, and if you use the S-400 system, Russia and other people can gain access into the genius of the F-35. But, honestly, I’m all for our country, but he got treated very unfairly. He was told you can’t buy it, you can’t buy it. You know, it’s the old secret when you can’t have something, all of a sudden, he ends up going and getting something else, and then they were — they said — first they said, “We’ll sell it to you. You can have it in four years.” Then they said, “We’ll get it to you immediately.” But he said, “I can’t do it. I bought. I’ve spent a fortune on buying another system” — similar system — from Russia. The problem is he already bought the planes. And the planes aren’t compatible from our standpoint. Not from the standpoint of compatibility, but from our standpoint, national security wise. So it’s a mess. It’s a mess. And honestly, it’s not really Erdoğan’s fault. So now we have breaking news. “Donald Trump loves Turkey. He loves Turkey. Donald Trump is on the side of Turkey instead of the United…” No, I’m not. Q You don’t seem like you want to go ahead with — I love our country, but I have to tell you, President Erdoğan, who has done — he gave me our pastor back. Pastor Brunson. Nobody else could get him back. Remember? They couldn’t get him back. President Obama, he was in jail for 35 years. He was going to be in jail forever. Pastor Brunson, he was an innocent man. I called him. And after a very short period of time, Pastor Brunson was standing in the Oval Office, with me. And he was back. So, you know, he’s been — from my standpoint — and he’s a tough guy. Okay? When you talk about tough. He’s tough. But I get along with him. I think he was unfairly treated, where you were told you can’t have it, and then after he bought another system, we said, “We’ll sell it to you. We’ll give it to you right away.” But he couldn’t use it then. But by that time, he had already bought the plane. So, it’s a complicated deal. We’re working on it. We’ll see what we can do. Q Can I ask you one last quick thing on China? Yes, go. Please. Q So, there was a negotiation on Huawei, welcoming students, holding off on tariffs. So it sounds like China has agreed to buy more ag, but is this a lopsided agreement or what more did China agree to? No, we agreed — on China, this is actually a good question. I did agree to allow our companies — you know, jobs — I like our companies selling things to other people. So I allowed that to happen. Very complex things. Not easy. This is not things that are easy to make. Very few companies are able to do it. But a tremendous amount of money. Our companies were very upset. You know, these companies are great companies. You know all of them. But they weren’t exactly happy with it. But we’re allowing that because that was a national security — we’re allowing them to sell. But we agreed to leave that until the end. Huawei is a complicated situation. We agreed to leave that — we’re leaving Huawei toward the end. We’re going to see. We’ll see where we go with the trade agreement. Yes, please. Q Thank you. I have a question about the border, but I just wanted to follow up quickly on the question about busing. Do you see it as a viable way of integrating schools? Does that relate to the policy that you’re going to unveil? Well, it has been something that they’ve done for a long period of time. I mean, you know, there aren’t that many ways you’re going to get people to schools. So this is something that’s been done. In some cases, it’s been done with a hammer instead of velvet glove. And, you know, that’s part of it. But this has been certainly a thing that’s been used over the — I think if Vice President Biden had answered the question somewhat differently, it would’ve been a lot — it would’ve been a different result. Because they really did hit him hard on that one. So — but it is certainly a primary method of getting people to schools. Q And is it — does it relate to the policy that you’re going to unveil that you just floated? It relates to everything we’re doing. And you’ll be hearing about it in — over the next couple of months. Q Over the next couple of months? Okay. And I want to ask you about the border. It seems like there is officially a week to go until the ICE raids begin under that deadline that you imposed. Yeah. Q Given that you have a July 4th recess, is it realistic to think that you’re going to get a deal to actually reform the asylum laws? No, because we could do it in — we could do it — you know, I say to people — I used to say 45 minutes; I say 15. But we could do it quickly. We could do it in a day. We could do it in an hour. We could reform asylum very quickly. We could get rid of the loopholes very quickly. These are horrible loopholes. And the reason that Mexico is so good — because they do have very, very tough immigration. They don’t have the kind of things and the kind of stupidity that we have. I mean, where somebody touches one foot on our sand and we now have to bring them into a court. We then have to register them. We then have to catch and release them. And they go and they live in our country. Then they’re supposed to come back in three years for a court case, and about 2 percent come back, as you know. I mean, you know it just as well as anybody, I really think. Maybe better than most. But the fact is they come back — but nobody comes back. Two percent come back. It’s a horrible system. Now, what we’re doing is they come in illegally and we’re bringing them out legally. But at the request of some, you know, very good Democrats, they asked me if I could hold it. And I did for a couple of weeks. And we have a week left. But other than the fact that we did get, in a very bipartisan way, we got — and I appreciate Speaker Pelosi because she really worked with us. It was humanitarian money. I mean, they didn’t have any money. And we’re running — don’t forget, nobody has ever had this problem before. We’re running hospitals; we’re running so many different things for the kids. And the kids are brought up because, under the laws, the kids are used — legally used to get other people to come in. If you have a child, it’s much easier to come into our country. It’s easy anyway. But if you have a child, it’s much easier. So we have these kids who have been absolutely abused. Horribly abused. And we could stop that with a minor change in the law. It’s a terrible thing that they’re not doing it. So here’s what’s happening. So I said, “All right, let’s see if you can give that to us.” Now, in the meantime, we did — we just got it approved last night, so we have the $4.5 billion in humanitarian aid. Right? And that’s good. So we have that. But we can have that number go way down if we stop people from coming up. For instance, if we had walls up and if we had it hard, the father and the beautiful daughter who drowned — and, you know, the Rio Grande is a very tough — you know, that has moments where it can be very calm and then all of a sudden it becomes totally violent and people get swept away. But if they thought it was hard to get in, they wouldn’t be coming up. They wouldn’t be coming up. And so many lives would be saved. So, essentially, if they would change the laws — and I said, “It would take us an hour, but let’s give you two weeks.” At the end of the second week, we’ll be removing people — legally removing. In other words — Q So you’re still planning for that deadline? That deadline is still in place, which is now a week from now? Oh, yeah. Unless we do something pretty miraculous. But the Democrats, it seems to me, they want to have open borders. And for the life of me, I cannot figure that out. It’s one thing, because I want people to come into our country. We need them because we have all these companies coming in. You know, we have Foxconn in Wisconsin. We have so many companies coming in. Auto companies. Just today, I was with President Abe; he told me another auto company is going to build a big plant. They need people. So, I’m all for that. The only problem is that they have to come in through a process. They have to come in legally. It’s also very unfair. You have millions of people on line for years trying to get into a country. They take tests. They study. They know a lot about our country. They read. They do — they have to go through a very complicated process. And these people have worked hard. They’ve been on line for seven, eight, nine years, and then somebody walks in and they’re, you know, “Welcome to the United States.” It’s really — honestly, it’s very unfair. But, yeah, we will be removing large numbers of people. People have to understand: Yes, the laws are — Q In a week? Yeah. Starting in a week, after — you know, sometime after July 4th. Q So the deal that was just passed does nothing to make you want to step back from that raid? Well, that’s different. That’s humanitarian — no, that’s a different — that’s humanitarian. We needed that just to take care — because we’re running now hospitals. I mean, the Border Patrol — these are incredible people — they’re doing what they — you know, nobody ever thought they were going to be doing this. And people are coming up — the reason people are coming up is because we’re doing so well as a country. In past years, we weren’t doing well. In past years, Mexico was doing better. You know, they took 32 percent of our car business. They were doing better than we were doing in the past. Now we’re the hot country in the world and people are coming up because they want a piece of that action. And the other reason children are coming up is because we had a separation policy. Okay? Under President Obama, we had separation. President Obama built those cells. They were in 2014. They were built. They all said, “Oh, look how horrible.” Then it turned out that it was built by President Obama. And I’m not blaming anybody. I’m not blaming him. I just say this: They had a separation policy. Right? I ended it. But when I ended it, I put out a statement: I think it’s going to bring more children up because you’re ending it. You’re saying now the child can stay with the parent. So, I said, ending it is nice in one way but in terms of what we’re doing, it makes it even tougher. But the really bad thing is the cartels — and I really think that Mexico — because, you know, they did 6,000; now they’re doing 16,000 on our border — I think that Mexico is looking to swamp the cartels. And those kind of numbers will do it. It would be a great thing. What Mexico is doing for us is great. By the way, without the tariffs, they wouldn’t have done it for us. We’ve been after — we’ve been after them for many years to do it. But they have really, so far — it’s only a week — the numbers are way down. And, so far, a lot of good things have happened. Yes, sir. Please. Yes, please. In the second row. Q Thank you, Mr. President. Two questions about Iran. Would you like me to leave now or? Here’s the thing: I can stay — we can do this for a long time. My only problem is this: I don’t need stories, “He stayed up there too long.” If I stay up there quickly, they say, “Why did he not give us more time?” If I stay up for two hours, they’ll say, “He stayed up too long.” I mean, if you promise you’re not going to say — I say because everybody has got a hand up, and if you want, I’ll go on. Should I go on or should I not go on? What you do you think? Q Go on. Q At least one more. Okay, and you’re not going to say, “He went on too long?” Q At least one more. Because we have time. You know, I have a flight that actually leaves pretty much when I want it to. Okay, let’s go. Q Thank you, Mr. President. Two questions about Iran. A week ago, you called off a strike because you were concerned it would kill Iranians. Disproportionately, absolutely. Q Disproportionately. Did the military leaders provide you with any alternative? You know, some derelict oil rig that could have been hit to — No, no, no — Q — to make a point? — Oh, I had many alt- — oh, yeah I have — I’ll bet I have 50 alternatives. I have many alternatives. Yeah. I mean, you know what — you don’t know what the sites were. You said “oil rig.” You don’t know what the sites were. But I had many alternatives. No, no, military leaders did a great job. When we chose and designated certain areas that we were thinking about, I said, “How many people are going to die?” I mean, I’m talking about on the other side. That means a lot to me too, okay? “How many people are going to die?” They said, “Probably about 150.” You don’t know, could be much worse than that. Could be less too, I guess, but it could be much more than that, because this is heavy stuff going in. And we would have been 100 percent — we have the greatest military in the world. I deal with them all the time. These people are incredible people. Lethal. And hopefully we don’t have to use it much. I mean, we’ve spent — if you look at the numbers — $716 billion this year. We had planes that were so old that we didn’t — now we have brand new F-35s. We have brand new Super Hornets and F-18s. And — I mean, the equipment we have is incredible. The Army now has beautiful new things. Everything is — we have a military that’s really great. Hopefully, we don’t have to use it very much. But, no, they came in, and they said this, and I asked them a question. And they came back a short time later and they said, “About 150 people.” I said, “That’s really disproportionate. I don’t like it.” Q My second question is that, here at the G20 Summit, what can you tell us: Has the ball been moved in any particular direction towards easing the tensions with Iran in some of the meetings that you’ve had? Well, I have had a lot of countries come up to me. France has come up. If you look at President Macron — good guy — he came up to me. He said, “You know, I do a lot of business” — meaning, France does a lot of business with Iran. I would love to go see them. It’s all right. Anybody can see them. I don’t mind talking. I think talking is great. I’m not going to say, “Oh, don’t talk to them. Don’t talk to them.” I do think John Kerry should not have been talking to them. I think that’s delaying this process a lot. I think he violated the Logan Act, actually. But I think John Kerry, speaking to Iran a lot, maybe saying things like, “Gee, you know, if you wait another 15 months, maybe Trump will lose the election and then you can deal with a person that’s a lot easier than Trump. You’ll deal with a stiff that will give you everything you want.” And that makes it a little tougher for me to make a deal, but that’s okay. Yeah, please. Go. Q Mr. President, during the week, you tweeted out your displeasure with the Supreme Court’s decision on census and you suggested you may seek to delay — Yeah, I think it’s very unfortunate. Q Are you, in fact, going to try to delay the census? Well, we’re looking at that legally, because they’re asking us to do a census. And, you know, the census — it was shocking to me. I figured it would be, you know, not expensive to do a census. It’s billions of dollars. You know that, right? Billions. Billions. They go knock on doors of every house in the country and they get everything. They’re not allowed to ask whether or not somebody is a citizen of the United States? How horrible and ridiculous is that? So we are looking at that. Yeah. Sure. Q Do you know if you have the legal authority to do that? Because it wasn’t a real decision that, “Boom, this is the way it is.” It was like, “Now.” Right? “Now.” It depends on — it depends on what happens, I guess. It was a very strange decision. It was a very, very sad decision. Not in terms of voting. Not in terms of — just a very sad because it was so convoluted. It was — to get to that decision, had to be very, very hard. Q Well, justices said that your guys were playing politics when deciding not to count non-citizens. Hey, who’s really playing politics, okay? Check it out. You tell me who’s playing politics. Yeah, go ahead. Please. Q Thanks, Mr. President. I think I heard you mention earlier — You’re? Q Geoff Earle with Daily Mail. It’s been a while. I think I heard you mention that with Vladimir Putin you had said you spoke about election interference privately as well. Did you give — did you speak to him in a sterner tone? Did you tell him there — No. I just — Q — would be serious consequences? We talked about it. Hey, we talked about it. You know we’ve talked about it before. You know he denies it totally, by the way. Just to — I mean, how many times can you get somebody to deny something? But he has, in the past, denied it. He’s denied it also publicly. But we talked about it. We talked about a lot of other things. I tell you, we talked about something that I think is very important, and that’s putting a cap on what he’s buying and we’re buying, from a nuclear standpoint — and other — arms control. We talked a lot about arms control. And I think he’d like to see arms control and so would we. I think it makes a lot of sense. Q What was the context in which you — Yeah, go ahead. Q Did you raise what was in the Mueller Report? Did you, sort of, articulate to him — Oh, the Mueller Report was a very — Q — that you thought that things ? — good report. I mean, it was a good report. I had 18 people that hated me. I had Mueller who was totally conflicted and, obviously, didn’t like me. We had — he was totally conflicted. And yet, no obstruction, no collusion. And, you know, that was good report. Yes, please. Q Thank you, Mr. President. And, you know, the Democrats want a do-over or five. They want to get it right. They’re working to get it right. They want a do-over or five. Yes, please. Q Edward Szall with TruNews. President Trump, your administration just unveiled the economic portion of the “deal of the century.” My question to you is: Why were no Palestinians members of the White House peace plan committee? Well, they are a very important part of it but they don’t really have to be. We’re just getting started. We have — and, as you know, we have a very good — David Friedman, a great gentleman. One of the most successful lawyers in New York, who loves Israel — David Friedman. Jason Greenblatt, who worked for me and my company — great, great lawyer. Great talent. Jared Kushner. And with me being President, if you don’t get that deal done it, will never happen. We’ll have to see what happens. But I think the Palestinians basically — I’m not sure — I know they want to make a deal but they want to be a little bit cute and that’s okay. I fully understand where they’re coming from. As you know, I’ve ended the money to — that was — we were paying them $550 million a year, and I ended that money because a year ago I heard they were saying nasty things. I said, “Wait a minute. We’re trying to make a deal. We’re trying to help them and they’re saying these nasty things? We’re not going to pay.” Now, if a deal is made, we would go back on a humanitarian basis. Not so different from the border. Because you see the problems and what’s going on. It’s terrible. But I think we have a very good chance of making a deal, and a lot of people think that’s probably the toughest deal of all. And it may very well be the toughest deal of all. A lot of people think it can’t be made. I mean, over the years, a lot of people would say, “That’s a deal that can’t be made no matter what.” But, you know, hey, I like to — we’re going to try. But I really believe that — I went to other negotiators from past years. For many, many years they’ve been trying to make this deal. And I said, “Did you ever take the money away?” Because they were always very hostile. And they said, “No, we wouldn’t do that. That’s inappropriate.” “Why is it inappropriate? I mean, they’re saying bad things. Why is it inappropriate?” And what I’ve done is said, “Look, as long — if you’re not negotiating and if you don’t want to make peace, we’re not going to pay you.” So let’s see what happens. I think they want to make a deal, and I’ve had a very good relationship with some of their leaders. And obviously I’ve had a good relationship with Israel. Now, the transaction was thrown up in the air a little bit because of what happened with Bibi Netanyahu’s election. They thought he won and then, all of a sudden, they couldn’t put together the coalition. And now they’re back to campaigning again. So that was something that came up that — who would have expected that. Maybe something will happen faster, but you know, that’s going to be going on for about three months. There’s a good chance we could — there’s a chance. I don’t want to even say “good chance” on that one because people say it’s the hardest deal. I’ve heard — when I was young, I’d say, “What do you think of this?” They’d say, “Oh, that’s tougher than Israel and the Palestinians making a deal.” They used to use that as like the metaphor. They used to use that as the excuse for a deal that was very tough to make. So it’s probably about the toughest deal to make. I actually think that there’s a good chance. Yes, sir. Please, go ahead. Yeah. White shirt. No, the gentleman behind you. Yeah. Okay, go ahead. We’ll get to you. Q Thank you. Go ahead. That’s the man I’m looking at. Q Demetri Sevastopulo, Financial Times. Can I just ask, first, one clarification? Sure. Q Are you saying you’re taking Huawei off the Commerce Department entity list? No, not at all. No, no. We’re going to be talking about Huawei, but we are going to be supplying equipment from our companies. Our companies make billions and billions of dollars’ worth of equipment. But we are not discussing Huawei with President Xi yet. I want to see — before we start getting into that, I want to see where we end up. We have to — we have a national security problem, which to me is paramount. Very important. Q But are you taking Huawei off the Commerce Department entity list? We’re talking about that. We have a meeting on that tomorrow or Tuesday. Q And my question is, you talk a lot about the economic and the trade practices of China, and you’re very critical. You don’t talk so much about the national security concerns about China. Well, that’s not — Q What do you worry about China ? It goes without — I think that goes without saying. I mean, look what I’ve done. Look what — who’s done what I’ve done? I took ZTE off, if you remember. I was the one; I did that. That was a personal deal. And then President Xi called me. And he asked me for a personal favor, which I considered to be very important. He’s a leader of a major country. And it was very important to him, having to do with where the employees are located and his relationship to that area. And it was 85,000 employees. And they were almost out of business. And he agreed to pay $1.2 billion penalty and some other things, including a board change and including some management changes, et cetera. ZTE, which is a — you know, much smaller than Huawei, but it’s very big. And they paid us a billion-two. $1.2 billion. I mean, part of the problem is then the Democrats go out and say — if I got $200 trillion, they’d say, “This was terrible. What a terrible deal.” Because that’s the way politics is. It’s, sort of, sad. But, you know, we got $1.2 billion. And we closed it; we opened it. And we had certain changes made, as you know. They made changes to the board. They changed the board. They made management changes. And they paid a lot of money. And they also have to buy American product. Buying American product is very important to me. It’s a big — it’s a big thing. Q Can I just ask you to clarify — Yeah. Go ahead, blue. Blue shirt. Q Stefan Niemann with ARD — Are we going to continue onward? Q Yeah. Yes? Q Yes. Does anybody say “no”? Huh? Q Thank you. Stefan Niemann with ARD German Television. One question — We just left Angela. Q I know. She’s another friend of mine. People don’t think so. Q And you called her a fantastic woman. We have a great relationship. I hope you know that. Q Yes. We will not forget that. We spent a lot of time together, too. Q You praised this G20 Summit as extremely successful, yet it was a “G19 against one” summit, if we look at climate change. Why is it that you still think ignoring the dangers of climate change is in the interest of the American ? I don’t ignore it. So we have the best numbers that we’ve ever had recently. And I’m not looking to put our companies out of business. I’m not looking to create a standard that is so high that we’re going to lose 20, 25 percent of our production. I’m not willing to do that. We have the cleanest water we’ve ever had. We have the cleanest air. You saw the reports come out recently. We have the cleanest air we’ve ever had. But I’m not willing to sacrifice the tremendous power of what we’ve built up over a long period of time, and what I’ve enhanced and revived. I’m not — I’m just not willing to do that. And they understand where I stand. And, you know, I’m not necessarily sure I agree. I can tell you, I’m not sure that I agree with certain countries, what they’re doing. Because I think they’re losing a lot of the power of what they can do with factories and with — and I’m not talking about political power, although that comes with it — I’m talking about the powering of a plant. It doesn’t always work with a windmill. When the wind goes off, the plant isn’t working. It doesn’t always work with solar, because solar is just not strong enough. And a lot of them want to go to wind, which has caused a lot of problems. And, you know, the problem with wind is, in the United States, we’re subsidizing these wind towers all over the place because wind doesn’t work — for the most part, doesn’t work without subsidy. And I don’t want to be subsidizing things that don’t have to be subsidized. The United States is paying tremendous amounts of money on subsidies for wind. I don’t like it. I don’t like it. I don’t want to do that. We’ll take a few more. Go ahead. Go ahead. Q Thank you, sir. Two questions on Iran, please. One. Q One question on Iran. Okay. Well, Iran — Pick the better one, please. Q Will do, sir. Iran says that it will be on the verge of violating the threshold for uranium enrichment in the JCPOA as soon as, potentially, next week. What will be your response when that happens? You’ll see. Q Okay. Can I have a follow-up? That’s all I can do. That’s all I can do. No. But that’s all I can do. Q Just — I can only say, “You’ll see.” We cannot let Iran have a nuclear weapon. Just can’t do it. Please. Q Thank you, Mr. President. Celia Mendoza from VOA Latin America. You met yesterday with President Putin, and in the readout it says that you touched the subject of Venezuela. Yeah. Q But can you expand a little bit of what was said during the meeting about Venezuela? And also — Well, first of all, we’re following Venezuela very closely. It’s a catastrophe. It’s what socialism can do. I use it all the time. I mean, it’s what socialism can do. It was one of the richest countries 20 years ago. It’s got among the largest oil reserves in the world. And they don’t have food. They don’t have water. It’s really, actually, incredible. I discuss it with — I’ve discussed it with almost every leader this weekend. We discuss Venezuela because we don’t ever want that to happen to us or their countries. Okay, go ahead. Q You mentioned that change of regime takes time, and then in Venezuela it has proven — Oh, sure, it takes time. Q But do you think that it’s a possibility — The problem is so many people leaving Venezuela; it’s like going to be a ghost town. It’s a very bad thing that’s happening in Venezuela. Nobody has seen anything quite like it, actually — especially from the standpoint that they were so wealthy. They’ve gone — I know so many people from Venezuela living in Miami. They’re incredible people. They’re incredible, incredible — a lot of them live in Doral, Miami. It’s — they call it “Little Venezuela.” I know them so well. These are people that are hard workers, warm. They’re just incredible. And to see what’s happening to Venezuela is heartbreaking. It’s really heartbreaking. Q Mr. President, do you think that it is a time for change the strategy? And do you still believe that Juan Guaidó is the person to lead the country? You have backed him up — Sure. You have a lot of strategies. I have five different strategies. I could change any moment. But, in the meantime, we’re helping them from the standpoint of aid. We’re getting as much aid as we can. I think they’re making a big mistake because they’re not making the aid very easy, as you know. You know, they’re not making it easy to get to people. But people are starving to death, and their water — they have no water. They have no water. They have oil but they don’t have any water. No, we have a lot of things in store if we have to do that. We don’t want to do anything but — you know, we don’t want to get involved to the extent that you may be thinking. But we have a lot of alternatives. We have five different alternatives for Venezuela. And we’ll see what happens. It’s doing very poorly. And Maduro is doing very poorly, obviously. It’s not — it’s just not working. Just not working. Yes, ma’am. Go ahead. Q Anita Kumar with Politico. I just wanted to — So from where are you? Q Politico. Anita Kumar. Politico. I just wanted to follow up on the questions that were asked — Jim asked about — Question. Question. Question. Q — question — about the Crown Prince that you met with earlier today. I didn’t hear you answer the question: Did you raise the killing of Jamal Khashoggi with him? I asked, yes. Q And what was the response? I asked him what was happening, and he was telling me that — I think he said 13, but could be more — and I think he said more are in the works — that there are large numbers of people being prosecuted. He’s very angry about it. He’s very unhappy about it. And I did mention it to him very strongly, and he answered very strongly. But they’re prosecuting large numbers of people. That was a bad event. Okay. Q And, sir — Yeah, go ahead, please. Q — can I just follow up? You mentioned — you mentioned that the intelligence community — you mentioned that no one had pointed the finger at him, but actually, the CIA did — the intelligence community. I cannot comment on intelligence community. I just — I’m not — probably, I guess I’m allowed to do what I want to do in terms of that, right? We can declassify, unlike Hillary Clinton. She decided to just give it out. We can declassify. The truth is that I just don’t want to talk about intelligence. But I will say this: A lot of people are being prosecuted and they’re taking it very seriously over there. And they’ve done a great job in Saudi Arabia from the standpoint of women and from — a lot of different things are happening in Saudi Arabia. One of the other things — very important with Saudi Arabia: that not only are they an ally, not only have they spent tremendous amounts of money coming into our country — and they have been a good ally, and they have actually bought tremendous amounts of military equipment that we use and that we’re able to use — but they’re also very much now changed their ways as to financing terror, which I can’t say for a lot of other countries. If you look at Iran, if you look at other countries in that area, they’re financing terror. Now, it’s harder for Iran because Iran doesn’t have the money they used to have. And they were given $150 billion. They were given $1.8 billion in cash. But Saudi Arabia has come a long way. I’ll tell you, in terms of reform, Saudi Arabia really has come a long way. Yeah, please — in the gold. Yeah, you. Right. Q Thank you very much, Mr. President. I’m with China’s Media Business News Organization in China. Just a little bit of follow-up on Huawei: You say you’re going to discuss Huawei’s entity listing soon. Is it possible — would you say it’s a possibility that Huawei is going to be removed from the list? Is it going to what? Q Removed from the entity list. Is it possible? I don’t want to talk about it now. I mean, we’re looking at that very carefully. Huawei is very much in play, in terms of our country and in terms of intelligence and the intelligence community. We know a lot about Huawei. But I don’t want to mention that right now. I just think it’s inappropriate. I will say that we’re not making it — other than what I told you already, we’re not making it a big subject. We’re going to save that for later. Q Okay. And another question on the big picture of U.S.-China relations: What do you think the U.S. and China should see each other? Are we strategic partners? Are we competitors? Are we enemies? What are we? No. I think we’re going to be strategic partners. I think we can help each other. I think, in the end, we can — if the right deal is structured, we can be great for each other. If China would open up — you’re opening up a tremendous — you know, the largest market in the world. And, right now, China is not open to the United States, but we’re open to China. That should have never really been allowed to happen. Okay. Yes, please. Q Thank you, Mr. President. On Russia, are you planning to go to Moscow next spring, as President Putin invited you? Yes. Q And do you agree with him that Western-style liberalism, as has been defined over the post-war period, is now obsolete and no longer relevant to today’s world? Well, I haven’t heard him say that. But he did invite me to Russia for the defeat of Nazis — that’s a big thing — defeat of Nazis. You know, Russia lost, he said, 25 million people. I had actually heard 50 million people. But he said yesterday that Russia, fighting the Nazis, they lost 25 million people. You would know better than anybody, Peter. But it was a tremendous — you know, they suffered greatly. And they’re having a 75th, you could really say, celebration of the defeat of the Nazis. And he invited me, and I said I would give it very serious consideration. That was a — Russia went through a lot. They lost, I guess, far more than anybody, fighting the Nazis, in terms of people. And he did invite me, and I said we would get back. But we will give that very serious consideration. Okay? Thank you, Peter. Q His comments to the Financial Times, right before arriving here, was that Western-style liberalism is obsolete. I know you probably haven’t read the interview. Do you think that’s true? Well, again, he may feel that way. I mean, he sees what’s going on. And I guess, if you look at what’s happening in Los Angeles, where it’s so sad to look; and what’s happening in San Francisco and a couple of other cities which are run by an extraordinary group of liberal people — I don’t know what they’re thinking. But he does see things that are happening in the United States that would — would probably preclude him from saying how wonderful it is. At the same time, he congratulated me, as every other — every other leader of every country did for what we’ve done economically, because we probably have the strongest economy we’ve ever had. And that’s a real positive. But I’m very embarrassed by what I see in some of our cities, where the politicians are either afraid to do something about it, or they think it’s votes, or — I don’t know what. Peter, I don’t know what they’re thinking. But when you look at Los Angeles, when you look at San Francisco, when you look at some of the other cities — and not a lot, not a lot, but you don’t want it to spread. And, at a certain point, I think the federal government, maybe, has to get involved. We can’t let that continue to happen to our cities. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. I’ll see some of you in South Korea — maybe at the DMZ. But this has been an honor. Thank you all very much. Thank you. END 5:05 P.M. JST
So, we’re going together to Normandy, and it’s going to be something really special. It looks like the weather is beautiful, but who knows; it changes fast. I think it’s going to be an incredible, special day in a very special and very important place. So I look forward to that. As you know, Mexico was in yesterday. They’re coming back this morning, in Washington. They’ll be meeting at the White House. I think a lot of progress was made yesterday, but we have to make a lot of progress. Mexico has been making, for many, many years, hundreds of mill- — of billions of dollars. They’ve been making an absolute fortune on the United States. They have to step up, and they have to step up to the plate, and perhaps they will. We’re going to see. They can solve the problem. The Democrats — Congress has been a disaster. They won’t change. They won’t do anything. They want free immigration — immigration to pour into our country. They don’t care who it is. They don’t care what kind of a record they have. It doesn’t make any difference. They’re not going to be changing anything. We go to them, we say, “Let’s fix the immigration laws.” They just want it to do badly. The worse it does, the happier they are. So that’s the way it is, and, I guess, that’s the way it’ll be until after the election. It’s a disgrace. Because, frankly, we could solve this problem so easy if the Democrats in Congress were willing to make some changes, but they’re not. And that’s the way it is. They want to just ride it out. They want to have a real bad time. They don’t care about crime. They don’t care about drugs pouring into our country. They couldn’t care less. It’s all politics. It’s a vicious business. So that’s the way it is. But we’re having a great talk with Mexico. We’ll see what happens. But something pretty dramatic could happen. We’ve told Mexico the tariffs go on. And I mean it, too. And I’m very happy with it. And lot of people, senators included, they have no idea what they’re talking about when it comes to tariffs. They have no — absolutely no idea. When you have the money, when you have the product, when you have the thing that everybody wants, you’re in a position to do very well with tariffs, and that’s where we are. We’re the piggybank. The United States is the piggybank. It has all the money that others want to take from us, but they’re not taking it so easy anymore. It’s a lot different. Our talks with China — a lot of interesting things are happening. We’ll see what happens. In the meantime, we’re getting 25 percent on $250 billion, and I can go up another at least $300 billion. And I’ll do that at the right time. But I think China wants to make a deal badly. I think Mexico wants to make a deal badly. And I’m going to Normandy. Thank you. Thank you, everybody. END 7:58 A.M. IST
Good evening. Your Majesties, Prime Minister and Mrs. Abe, distinguished guests: We are profoundly honored to return to Japan as your nation’s first state guests following the enthronement of His Majesty the Emperor. Your Majesty, the First Lady and I will never forget this gracious invitation, and we thank the people of Japan for their incredible hospitality and warm welcome in this majestic land. I carry with me the hopes of the American people for the treasured alliance between our countries. And we enter this next phase of our prospering relationship. Americans send their good wishes to the entire Japanese nation on your new Imperial Era. Congratulations. This morning, Melania and I had the honor of meeting with Their Majesties the Emperor and Empress, right here at the Imperial Palace. Two years ago, when we were last in Japan, we also had the privilege of meeting Their Majesties the Emperor Emeritus and Empress Emerita. We’re deeply grateful to the Imperial Family for their continued friendship. During this visit, we have also been delighted to spend more time with our very good friends, Prime Minister and Mrs. Abe. Over the past two years, we have developed a close and trusting partnership that we greatly cherish. The name of Japan’s new Imperial Era is Reiwa, or “beautiful harmony.” I have been told that it comes from a collection of ancient Japanese poetry called the Man’yōshū. Reiwa celebrates the unity and beauty of the Japanese nation. It also reminds us that in times of change, we can take comfort in our inherited traditions. In the fifth book of the Man’yōshū, where the term Reiwa originates, the writings of two poets offer important insights for this moment. The first poet, Ōtomo no Tabito, writes of potential and possibilities of spring. The second poet, Yamanoue no Okura, a good friend of the first, reminds us of our solemn responsibilities to family and future generations. Both are beautiful lessons, passed down from ancient wisdom. So today, we embrace the limitless potential now before us: to cooperate on new frontiers of technology, space, infrastructure, defense, commerce, diplomacy, and many other areas of shared promise. We also remember that our alliance is a rich inheritance and a gift we must pass on to our children, just as the sons and daughters of Japan preserved the ancient poetry of the Man’yōshū. Your Majesty, in the spirit of beautiful harmony, may we celebrate the many possibilities of this new era, may we remember our duties to past and future generations, and may we protect the cherished bond between America and Japan for our children. Thank you. And our very best wishes to you, the Imperial Family, and all of Japan for a peaceful and prosperous Reiwa Era. Thank you very much. END 7:50 P.M. JST
Well, thank you very much. We’ve had a great time, a great stay. And tomorrow is really the main event — a very important event in the history of Japan. It’s over 200 years since something like this has happened. So it’s a great honor to be representing the United States. And the Prime Minister and I talked a lot today about trade and military and various other things. And I think we had a very productive day. And tomorrow, likewise, will be a very productive day. And I just want to thank you. That was an incredible evening at sumo — sumo wrestling. And the United States — we contributed — I did this one personally. I didn’t want to have anybody get me in trouble, so we did it personally. We bought that beautiful trophy, which they’ll have, hopefully, for many hundreds of years. And that will be their trophy for the championship — sumo championships. And I think it was very nice. And I — we really enjoyed being there. It was something to see these great athletes, because they really are athletes. It’s a very ancient sport. And I’ve always wanted to see sumo wrestling, so it was really great. Thank you very much for being here. Thank you very much. END 6:18 P.M. JST
Well, thank you very much. Thank you very much. We just spent many, many hours on the plane. You know the flight probably as well as I do. And here we are. We just walked off the plane, and here we are, along with probably 40 of the greatest business leaders in the world. So thank you very much. Please, sit down. Thank you. Thank you, Ambassador Hagerty. And you’ve been doing a fantastic job. Everybody is talking about the job. Do we like the job he’s doing, folks? Right? And we really have strengthened the enduring alliance between the United States and Japan; it’s very special. And the relationship that I have with Prime Minister Abe is very special. We greatly appreciate all of your hard work in organizing this wonderful event. And, Mrs. Hagerty, thank you very much. Fantastic job. Thank you. The First Lady and I are thrilled to be with you as we celebrate Japan’s Reiwa Era — a very special time — and affirm the close economic ties between our two nations. This evening, we’re delighted to be joined by Ambassador Lighthizer. Where is Bob? They didn’t give you a great seat, Bob. Huh? What happened? Who’s been very busy negotiating deals and doing a fantastic job. Thank you very much, Bob. It’s great you’re here. As well as Mr. Peter Jennings, the President of the American Chamber of Commerce in Japan. Thank you very much. Thank you, Peter. Fantastic. Thank you. Also in the room tonight are dozens of the distinguished representatives from the American and Japanese communities. The greatest business men and women in the world. You really have some people that are — just been incredible and incredible investors in our country. Thank you very much. You said, if I win, you’re going to put $50 billion, and you put the $50 billion in. Now he says more. He actually raised it to $100 billion. That’s true. It’s probably higher than that too. Thank you very much. I appreciate that confidence. We also appreciate all of your spouses being here. Very special people. Without the spouses, it doesn’t work. That, we will all admit. So thank you all for being here. We’re deeply grateful to you for your presence. And the relationship with Japan and the United States, I can say for a fact, has never been stronger. It’s never been more powerful. Never been closer. This is a very exciting time for commerce between the two countries that we both love. The United States and Japan are two of the largest economies in the world. You’re right there. You’re doing fantastically well. I was looking very closely on the ride over at some of the numbers being produced in Japan, and you’re doing great. Today, we’re cooperating closely across many industries, including defense, technology, digital economy, and energy; also infrastructure, science, and so much more. As you know, the United States and Japan are hard at work negotiating a bilateral trade agreement, which will benefit both of our countries. I would say that Japan has had a substantial edge for many, many years, but that’s okay. Maybe that’s why you like us so much. But we’ll get it a little bit more fair, I think. I think we’ll do that. We also have a tremendous relationship on the military. And Japan is ordering a great deal of military equipment. We make the best equipment in the world: the best jets, the best missiles, the best rockets. The best everything. So Japan is doing very large orders, and we appreciate that, and we think it’s probably appropriate right now with everything that’s going on. The world is changing. With this deal, we hope to address the trade imbalance, remove barriers to United States exports, and ensure fairness and reciprocity in our relationship. And we’re getting closer. Just last week, U.S. beef exports gained full access to Japan and to the markets in Japan for the first time since the year 2000. We welcome your support in these efforts, and we hope to have several further announcements soon, and some very big ones over the next few months. And we’re also here, as you know, for a very special occasion, not having to do with trade. We all know about that. Our nations are also working together to promote mutually beneficial investment. The United States is currently Japan’s top foreign direct investor, by far. And overall Japanese investment in the United States supports nearly a million jobs, and that number is going up very rapidly. In fact, we’re looking at projections with all of the money coming in for the new auto plants and other things. That number will be doubled in a very short period of time. Over the past two years alone, Japan has invested tens of billions of dollars in the United States. In March, Toyota — where’s Toyota? Huh? I thought that was you. Please, stand up. That’s pretty big stuff, right? Thank you very much. We appreciate it very much. Thank you. Which is represented, and a number of people. But we have the boss. There’s nothing like the boss. Thank you. Recently announced new investments of $750 million, and increased its five-year investment plan to $13 billion — appreciate it — with plans to add many, many new American manufacturing jobs. And last month, Softbank and Denso — where are they? Please. Where are they? Well, this guy. Where is — do you have another? Or do you — that’s what I thought. Thank you very much. Thank you. Appreciate it. Joined Toyota in announcing a one-billion-dollar investment to help Uber develop self-driving cars and technology. And I guess self-driving cars are becoming a bigger and bigger thing. What do you think? Yes? That’s the future. If you say that’s the future, I’m okay with it. It seems very strange when you look over and there’s nobody behind a car going 60 miles an hour. But when you say it, I’m good with it. I hope many of you in the room will also significantly increase your investments in the United States. There’s no better place to invest. You look at what’s happened with our stock market. It’s up almost 50 percent since my election in 2016. We have the best employment numbers we’ve ever had, as of this week. We have almost 160 million people working. It’s the most we’ve ever had working. And we have the best unemployment numbers we’ve ever had, specifically on groups: African Americans, Asian American, Hispanic American. The best, historically. With women, we have the best numbers we’ve had in now 71 years. That’s going to be, very soon, a historic number, meaning the best ever. So there’s never been a better time to invest and to do business in the United States. We have some interesting trade deals going on — I’m sure you haven’t read too much about it — with China and some others. But it seems to be working along, actually, quite well. Last year, for the first time in a decade, the United States was ranked the most competitive economy anywhere in the world. During that year, our economy grew at 3 percent. And if the Fed didn’t raise interest rates, frankly, it would’ve been much higher than 3 percent. And the stock market, as high as it’s been, would’ve been at least, I think, probably anywhere from seven to ten thousand points higher. But they wanted to raise interest rates. You’ll explain that to me. According to the World Economic Forum, our financial system and business dynamics, and labor market, all ranked number one anywhere in the world. Manufacturing and small business optimism have set all-time records, and consumer confidence has just surged to a 21-year high. So they do studies, they do polls, and we’re literally at the top of every study and every poll. So that’s good. The optimism is what it’s all about, when you think about it. We slashed our corporate tax rate from the highest in the developed world to one of the lowest in the developed world. We took it down — I mean, some people could say we’re at 41, 42 percent — different places, different areas. But we took it down from probably, on average, 41, 42 percent — depending on what state you’re talking about; sometimes much higher than that — to 21 percent. And people were pretty amazed that we got that through. But what it meant is tremendous investment and jobs. Because capital investment is now 100 percent deductible, and that’s something that people thought would never happen, they’d never see. You have one-year deductions, where it used to be, in many cases, 40-year deductions. And we’ve cut red tape and job-killing regulation at an unprecedented rate — the most ever by a President. And you could take four years or eight years, or more than that, in one case, and the fact is that nobody has ever cut regulations like we have. We’ve eliminated more than 30,000 pages from the Federal Register of regulations. These are all regulations. Thousands and thousands of pages; they’re all gone. And we still have regulation but it’s sensible regulation. It’s environmentally excellent. And things are getting done. In Louisiana — I just left Louisiana a few days ago — they opened an LNG plant. It’s a $10 billion investment. Many Japanese investors, actually, in that plant. Anybody in this room investing in that plant, in Louisiana? It just opened. It’s too bad because — Where? Congratulations. Because I hear you’re sold out for 20 years, right? That’s been a good one. Are you happy with the investment? Okay, good. I think you would be. I’ve heard it’s been very good. But we got the permits that were stuck for years and years and years, where they couldn’t get permits. We got the permits as soon as I got into office. I made sure that people were able to get permits to build. And that LNG plant is one of the biggest in the world. It is absolutely magnificent. Of course, most people have no idea what they’re looking at. This is a building that’s a mile and half long and it’s all pipes. It’s all pipes. But in those pipes are where a lot of energy is being produced. And they were telling me the numbers and the amounts; it’s incredible. And now they’re building many more. So we’re going to — we’re really doing something very special. The United States, as you know, has become the number-one country in the world, during my administration — two and a half years — in energy. So we’re now number one in the world. And, actually, we’re number one in the world, by far. And if I get the pipelines approved in Texas, which have been under consideration for many, many years — we’ll get them done quickly because it’s a good thing — and if we get that, we’ll be up another 20 to 25 percent. Just that one move with the pipelines. We were able to do the, as you know, the Dakota Access Pipeline, and we’re able to do many pipelines. Many, many, pipelines got approved that were stuck. They were absolutely stuck. You know the Keystone XL Pipeline — the big one — I did that in my first week in office. Forty-eight thousand jobs. And that’s now under construction. So we want U.S. companies. We want Japanese companies. We want firms from all around the world to build and hire and grow in the United States. It really is a special place. And we really have made it much easier. We’ve gotten rid of a lot of the red tape. As an example, if you look at the various types of plants, nobody was getting them approved. Nobody was getting them out of the EPA. You couldn’t get refineries done. You couldn’t get anything. We were sending our raw product way far away to foreign countries to have it refined. And then, we’d bring it back to the United States. And now we have plants, the likes of which nobody has ever seen, actually. Commerce between the United States and Japan is essential to ensuring a future of peace and prosperity for all of our citizens. That relationship is so important. And I will say this: I met with some of our generals this morning, before we left, and the relationship they have with the Japanese generals has been incredible. And they have tremendous respect for them, too. Tremendous respect. If you join in seizing the incredible opportunities now before us, in terms of investments in the United States, I think you’re going to see tremendous return on your investments. It’s my sincere hope that the Reiwa Era — the economic ties between the United States and Japan continue to grow deeper and stronger, if that’s possible. I think we, right now, probably have the best relationship with Japan that we’ve ever had. And that goes back a long way. But I don’t think it’s ever been better. This probably is — this probably is the best. And we’re going to keep it that way. So I look forward to seeing you all. I look forward to shaking your hands right now. I know the media — finally, we’ll get them to go back and rest because many of them came on the flight with us, and I’m sure they want to go home. I’m sure they wouldn’t want to stick around and — — hear any of these conversations. But, anyway. But we had a good time on the flight. We had a great flight. And it’s an honor to be with you again. I’ve been to Japan many times and have so many friends, and they are just — it’s a great place with great, great people. Really, great, great people. Thank you very much. And let’s say hello to everybody. Thank you. And thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. END 6:20 P.M. JST
It’s a big moment. It’s a very important moment. It’s my honor to welcome Prime Minister Netanyahu to the White House. He’s a very special man. He’s done a great job. I want to begin by expressing our condolences to the Prime Minister and the people of Israel for the horrific Hamas rocket attack on Israeli homes this morning, which wounded seven civilians at least, including numerous children. Our prayers are with our friends in Israel as they carry out an incredible way of life in the face of great terror. The United States recognizes Israel’s absolute right to defend itself. The despicable attack this morning demonstrates the significant security challenges that Israel faces every single day. And today, I am taking historic action to promote Israel’s ability to defend itself, and really to have a very powerful, very strong national security, which they’re entitled to have. In a moment, I will sign a presidential proclamation recognizing Israel’s sovereign right over the Golan Heights. The State of Israel took control of the Golan Heights in 1967 to safeguard its security from external threats. Today, aggressive action by Iran and terrorist groups in southern Syria, including Hezbollah, continue to make the Golan Heights a potential launching ground for attacks against Israel. Very violent attacks. Any possible future peace agreement must account for Israel’s need to defend itself from Syria, Iran, and other regional threats. We do not want to see another attack like the one suffered this morning north of Tel Aviv. In our meeting today, the Prime Minister and I will discuss these dangers, as well as several mutual priorities in the Middle East and beyond. We’ll be discussing other subjects also, including trade, but we will mostly be discussing this, defense and perhaps offense. Under my administration, the unbreakable alliance between the United States and Israel has never been stronger. You read things; you hear things. It’s never been stronger. Just remember that. People talk, but it’s only talk. Our relationship is powerful. At this moment, the American embassy stands proudly in Jerusalem, the capital the Jewish people have established. And they’ve wanted the embassy for many, many years — for many decades — and, frankly, through many Presidents. And we got it done. Not only did we get it done, we also got it built at a slight cost saving, like about one-billion-dollar cost saving. And I want to thank Ambassador David Friedman for the job he’s done, and Jason Greenblatt, and Jared, and everybody. They worked so hard together, so I want to thank you all. Thank you very much, Ambassador. You enjoying it? And you love Israel? Good. And America. I was waiting for him to say that. We have defeated the caliphate in Syria. We have withdrawn from the horrible Iran nuclear deal and imposed the toughest-ever sanctions. And these are, by far, the toughest ever on the Iranian regime. It’s having a big effect. Iran is not the same country that it was when I took office. The day I took office, we had threats all over the Middle East and beyond. Iran is a much different place right now than it was. As I said during my State of the Union Address, we will not avert our eyes from the dictatorship that chants “Death to America,” “Death to Israel,” and calls for genocide against the Jewish people. We won’t let them even consider that. We will confront the poison of anti-Semitism through both our words and, maybe even more importantly, our actions. In the last century, humanity witnessed the horrific consequences of anti-Semitism and a world without a Jewish homeland. In the wake of those unthinkable horrors, the Jewish people built a mighty nation in the Holy Land — something very, very powerful, something very special and important. Today, Israel demonstrates that incredible possibilities when strong, sovereign, and independent nations chart their own destinies. There can be no better example of greatness than what Israel has done, starting from such a small speck of sand. Israel is an inspiration, a trusted ally, and a cherished friend. The United States will always stand by its side. I’d like to now invite Prime Minister Netanyahu to say a few words. And Bibi and I have known each other for a long time. He’s another one who truly, truly loves Israel. I think I can say he also loves the United States. So before I sign the presidential proclamation recognizing Israel’s sovereignty over the Golan Heights, I’d like to ask Prime Minister Netanyahu to say a few words. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. So this was a long time in the making. It should have taken place many decades ago. Bibi, maybe you can give this to the people of Israel? Well, we’re talking right now. We’re talking about this. Thank you very much. Thank you, everybody. Q Will Israel have to pay something in order to have this recognition? Q Do you want to see Prime Minister Netanyahu be the next Prime Minister? Yes, you can. Yes, he did. Yes, he did. END 12:16 P.M. EDT
Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you, Father, very much. It’s a great honor to be here. This is my third one. It’s happening so fast. Who would have thought? The first I remember, the second I remember very well, and this is third. So, time flies. But, Madam Speaker, I want to thank you very much for that — those lovely remarks. And congratulations on the Irish grandchildren. That’s pretty good. Also, I want to thank our Vice President, Mike Pence, who’s with us today. To all of the distinguished members of Congress, of which we actually have many, and our many wonderful Irish friends, as we begin our celebration of St. Patrick’s Day. This afternoon, we’re delighted to join all in welcoming Taoiseach, who I’ve gotten to know very well. My friend. We discussed a lot of things that were of great interest to all of us just a little while ago in the Oval Office. In particular, we talked about Brexit, a — something that’s turning out to be a little more complex than they thought it would be. But it will all work out. Everything does. One way or the other, it’s going to work out. But you had a very interesting view on it, and I appreciate your letting me know what’s going on over there. Very, very tough situation. I also want to thank Ireland’s Ambassador, Daniel Mulhall. Thank you very much, Daniel. I appreciate it. And the entire Irish delegation for being with us today. The United States and Ireland are bound together by ties of both kinship and friendship. It’s really a great friendship. It’s a friendship like rarely does any country have with another. Our citizens share an abiding love of faith, family, and freedom. Today, our relationship is as strong and resilient as the great Irish people are strong and resilient. Since America’s founding, men and women of Irish descent have strengthened our nation beyond measure. In every war since the American Revolution, Irish Americans have fought with distinction to win our independence, to preserve our union, and defend our way of life. And nobody has done it like the Irish. They do it with flair. They do it with brilliance. They’ve moved our hearts with timeless works of art, literature, and music. Irish Americans have also answered the call to serve our nation at the highest levels of government. And you look at the United States Supreme Court, you look in the halls of Congress, and throughout my administration: A lot of Irish. They’re all over the place. Right, Mike? As an example, Mike, you have your sister, Annie, here today. Where is Annie? Annie, very nice to have you. That’s very good. And you’re serious Irish. That’s what I’m hearing. Anyway, nice to have you, Annie. Thank you. Many members of Congress in the room also trace their roots to Ireland, including House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy. Kevin, thank you very much. What a good job you’re doing. How’s he doing, Nancy? Okay? Huh? You have a little advantage. She has a little advantage, but that’s okay. But he’s doing okay. Good. Thank you, Kevin, very much. Senator Pat Leahy. Patrick, thank you very much. Appreciate it. And co-chairs of the Friends of Ireland Caucus, Richie Neal and Peter King. Richie, thank you very much. Where’s Peter? Where is Peter? Peter, thank you very much. We see each other here and lots of other places. And you’re doing a great job. Thank you very much, Peter. And from Queens, too. On top of everything, from Queens. This afternoon, we’re also proudly joined by House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer and — Steny, thank you very much. Steny, stand up. Come on, Steny. You’ve worked hard. . Come on, stand up, Steny. Okay. Thank you. Thank you, Steny. And Congressman Eliot Engel. Thank you very much. Thanks, Eliot. I appreciate it very much. They really have worked very hard on a lot of issues and some pertaining specifically to Ireland. And we appreciate it very much. Thank you, Eliot. Since the 7th century, St. Patrick’s Day has honored the legacy of Ireland’s patron saint, a man of profound humility and faith, whose selfless service is an inspiration to us all. On St. Patrick’s Day 1937, President Roosevelt noted that, “In times of plenty and in times of famine, Ireland, and the descendants of Ireland, have been faithful to the heritage of St. Patrick.” That’s right. Today, we reaffirm our enduring gratitude for the profound contributions, extraordinary service, and unyielding spirit of the Irish people. As the United States and Ireland grow ever closer in friendship and partnership — and we are, indeed, growing closer. We’re doing trade deals, we’re doing things that we, frankly, have not done to this extent before. May we find inspiration in the example of those who came before. May we draw new strength from the noble example of Saint Patrick. And may we all be blessed by the luck of the Irish. That’s a good thing, “the luck of the Irish.” Mr. Prime Minister, thank you again for joining us. You had a very long and good trip. And we really appreciate that you’re here. And please give our warmest and best regards to all of the great and wonderful people of Ireland. Thank you very much. Please. Thank you, Leo. Thank you very much. END 12:31 P.M. EDT
Thank you very much for being here. We have a very big moment because we have Danny Burch back home, where he should be. He was in Yemen, in a very horrible situation — a captive, a prisoner. You can call him whatever you want, but it wasn’t good. He was there for 18 months — even a little more than 18 months — and we got him out. And we had some great help from UAE and all of our friends. But we got Danny out. And he’s just come home, said hello to his family, his beautiful son. Thank you for being here. And it’s nice to see your father back where he belongs. I want to thank our Vice President for being here. I want to thank Mitt Romney — Senator Romney, Senator Graham for being here. They were in the office, unrelated to this, and they heard about this and they know the story of Danny. This is a very big story in our country, what they did with you. But we got him out, and we’re very happy about it. And, Danny, welcome home. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you, Danny. Would you like to say something? Thank you, Danny. Appreciate it. Thank you all very much. Mike — Mike, do you have anything to say while we’re here? Well, I will say, Danny, we’re 20 and 0. We’ve gotten a lot of them out. And they shouldn’t have been there — Aya from Egypt, and many others. North Korea. We have a few negotiations going on right now. I won’t tell you where because we don’t want to blow the negotiation out the window, but we have a few negotiations going. I love doing it because I love the end result. This is the end result: a happy man with a happy family. Lindsey, would you have anything to say? Well, would you say maybe a few words? You worked very hard. MR. O’ Thank you. That’s so nice. MR. O’ The Ambassador said that he’s the greatest hostage negotiator in our history. And I say, “Don’t say it because they’ll never write it. They’ll never write it.” Mitt, would you say something? Please. Thank you very much, Mitt. And, Robert, again, congratulations to everybody. Keep it going. We have some other ones going right now that nobody knows about, but we’re going to pull it off. And I really — you’re doing a fantastic job. Thank you very much. MR. O’ Thank all very much. Thank you. Thank you. Q How are the trade talks going with China? Going okay. We’re moving along. We’re discussing that with Lindsey and Mitt. They’re moving along well, and we’ll see what happens. They’re either going to be a good deal or it’s not going to be a deal. But I think they’re moving on very nicely. Q Mr. President, is North Korea breaking a promise by rebuilding a key missile launch site? Well, we’re going to see. It’s too early to see. But we have to solve a problem. We have a very nasty problem there. We have to solve a problem. The relationship is good. I would be very disappointed if that were happening. It’s a very early report, and we’re the ones that put it out. But I would be very, very disappointed in Chairman Kim. And I don’t think I will be, but we’ll see what happens. We’ll take a look. It’ll ultimately get solved. Thank you all very much. I appreciate it. Q What’s your message to Republicans who choose to vote against your national emergency declaration? What’s your message to Republicans who have already chosen to vote against it? We’ll have to see how the vote goes. We’ll see how the vote goes. END 2:18 P.M. EST
Well, thank you very much. I want to begin by thanking the Prime Minister and President of Vietnam. We’re in Hanoi. It’s an incredible city. What’s happened over the last 25 years has been incredible for the people of Vietnam, the job they’ve done — economic development. Really something special. So I want to thank all of the people of Vietnam for having treated us so well. We have, I think, reasonably attractive news from Pakistan and India. They’ve been going at it, and we’ve been involved in trying to have them stop. And we have some reasonably decent news. I think, hopefully, that’s going to be coming to an end. It’s been going on for a long time — decades and decades. There’s a lot of dislike, unfortunately. So we’ve been in the middle, trying to help them both out and see if we can get some organization and some peace. And I think, probably, that’s going to be happening. We have — Venezuela, as you know, has been very much in the news, and we’re sending supplies. Supplies are getting through a little bit more. It’s not easy. It’s hard to believe somebody would say “let’s not do it.” What difference would that make, except it’s great for its people to let it get through. But we’re sending a lot of supplies down to Venezuela. People are starving to death, and you would really think that the man in charge, currently, would let those supplies get through. We are getting them into some of the cities and some of the areas that need them the most. And it’s not an easy job. It’s very difficult, actually. On North Korea, we just left Chairman Kim. We had a really, I think, a very productive time. We thought, and I thought, and Secretary Pompeo felt that it wasn’t a good thing to be signing anything. I’m going to let Mike speak about it. But we literally just left. We spent pretty much all day with Kim Jong Un, who is — he’s quite a guy and quite a character. And I think our relationship is very strong. But at this time — we had some options, and at this time we decided not to do any of the options. And we’ll see where that goes. But it was a very interesting two days. And I think, actually, it was a very productive two days. But sometimes you have to walk, and this was just one of those times. And I’ll let Mike speak to that for a couple of minutes, please. Thank you. Q Mr. President — All right, Major, please. Q Has this process been more difficult than you thought? And was the North Korean demand for lifting of some sanctions the real sticking point here — Yeah. Q — in that you did not want to do that and they did? And will there be — It was about the sanctions. Q Will there be a third summit, Mr. President? Basically, they wanted the sanctions lifted in their entirety, and we couldn’t do that. They were willing to denuke a large portion of the areas that we wanted, but we couldn’t give up all of the sanctions for that. So we continue to work, and we’ll see. But we had to walk away from that particular suggestion. We had to walk away from that. Q Will all the sanctions that are currently in existence remain, sir? They’re in place. You know, I was watching as a lot of you folks over the weeks have said, “Oh, we’ve given up.” We haven’t given up anything. And frankly, I think we’ll end up being very good friends with Chairman Kim and with North Korea, and I think they have tremendous potential. I’ve been telling everybody: They have tremendous potential. Unbelievable potential. But we’re going to see. But it was about sanctions. I mean, they wanted sanctions lifted but they weren’t willing to do an area that we wanted. They were willing to give us areas but not the ones we wanted. John? Q As we know, I mean, there’s an incredibly complex set of issues that are at play here in terms of lifting the sanctions and what denuclearization is. Right. Q Did you get any distance toward sort of what Kim’s vision of denuclearization is? Yes, we did. We did. Q Because there is a lot — a line of thinking that he wants to keep some nukes. Yeah. Q I mean, would you allow him to do that? And if you can’t — Well, I don’t — John, I don’t want to comment — Q If you can’t get — Excuse me, I don’t want to comment on that exactly, but he has a certain vision and it’s not exactly our vision, but it’s a lot closer than it was a year ago. And I think, you know, eventually we’ll get there. But for this particular visit, we decided that we had to walk, and we’ll see what happens. Okay? Oh, look, we have a gentleman nobody has ever heard of. Sean Hannity — what are you doing here, Sean Hannity? Should we let him do a question? I don’t know. Yeah, John, go ahead. Q If I could just follow up. Yeah. Q So if he wants the sanctions completely off, and you want more on denuclearization, how can you bridge that gap between now and the next time you might sit down with him? With time. It’ll be bridged, I think, at a certain point. But there is a gap. We have to have sanctions. And he wants to denuke, but he wants to just do areas that are less important than the areas that we want. We know that — we know the country very well, believe it or not. We know every inch of that country. And we have to get what we have to get, because that’s a big — that’s a big give. Yeah, Sean. Please. Q I work in radio and TV. The mic is on. Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Secretary, good to see you. Mr. President, if you could elaborate a little bit more. We have some history. President Reagan walked away in Reykjavik. A lot of condemnation at the time. And it ended up working out very well in the end for the United States. Was this mostly your decision? Or — and what message would you want to send Chairman Kim, as he’s listening to this press conference, about the future and your relationship? Well, Sean, I don’t want to say it was my decision, because what purpose is that? I want to keep the relationship, and we will keep the relationship. We’ll see what happens over the next period of time. But, as you know, we got our hostages back. There’s no more testing. And one of the things, importantly, that Chairman Kim promised me last night is, regardless, he’s not going to do testing of rockets and nuclear. Not going to do testing. So, you know, I trust him, and I take him at his word. I hope that’s true. But, in the meantime, we’ll be talking. Mike will be speaking with his people. He’s also developed a very good relationship with the people — really, the people representing North Korea. I haven’t spoken to Prime Minister Abe yet. I haven’t spoken to President Moon of South Korea. But we will, and we’ll tell them it’s a process and it’s moving along. But we just felt it wasn’t appropriate to sign an agreement today. We could have. I just felt it wasn’t very appropriate. Yeah, Jonathan. Q Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you. Q Two questions, if I may. First, did you learn anything new about Chairman Kim, through this meeting? And secondly, of course, while this was going on, the drama back in Washington, your former lawyer, Michael Cohen — who worked for you for 10 years; his office right next to yours, right by yours at Trump Tower — he called you a liar, a conman, a racist. What’s your response to Michael Cohen? Well, it’s incorrect. And, you know, it’s very interesting, because I tried to watch as much as I could. I wasn’t able to watch too much because I’ve been a little bit busy. But I think having a fake hearing like that, and having it in the middle of this very important summit is really a terrible thing. They could’ve made it two days later or next week, and it would’ve been even better. They would’ve had more time. But having it during this very important summit is sort of incredible. And he lied a lot, but it was very interesting because he didn’t lie about one thing. He said no collusion with the Russian hoax. And I said, “I wonder why he didn’t just lie about that, too, like he did about everything else?” I mean, he lied about so many different things, and I was actually impressed that he didn’t say, “Well, I think there was collusion for this reason or that.” He didn’t say that. He said, “No collusion.” And I was, you know, a little impressed by that, frankly. Could’ve — he could’ve gone all out. He only went about 95 percent instead of 100 percent. But the fact is, there is no collusion. And I call it the “witch hunt.” This should never happen to another President. This is so bad for our country. So bad. You look at this whole hoax — I call it the Russian witch hunt. I now add the word “hoax.” It’s a very, very bad thing for our country. But I was impressed with the fact that he — when — you know, because the most important question up there was the one on collusion. And he said he saw no collusion. So we’ll see what happens. But it was pretty shameful, I think. Yes, ma’am. Please. Please. Q President Trump — Q President Trump — How about one of you, instead of three? Q Well, actually, I do have the microphone. I guess, so — well — Excuse me. Excuse me. Person in the front. Go ahead. Q Thank you, President Trump, for — No, no. No, not you. Excuse me. Yeah, we’ll get to you. Thank you. Q Thank you, President Trump. Jane Tung from Television. What was the atmosphere like when you walked away from the negotiation table? And — I think it was very good, very friendly. This wasn’t a walk away, like you get up and walk out. No, this was very friendly. We shook hands. You know, there’s a warmth that we have, and I hope that stays. I think it will. But we are — you know, we’re positioned to do something very special. This has been going on for many decades. This isn’t me. You know, this was — this should’ve been solved during many presidential runs. And, you know, people talked about it; they never did anything. I get a kick out of so many people from past administrations telling me how to negotiate when they were there, in some cases, for eight years; they did nothing. But I think the relationship was very warm, and when we walked away it was a very friendly walk. Mike, you might want to speak to that for a second. It’s a very different system. I would say that’s true. Q How do you find, you guys, in common? Because we saw the atmosphere — We just like each other. I mean, we have a good relationship. Yeah. It’s a totally different system, to put it mildly. But we like each other. A good relationship. Go ahead. In the back. Go ahead. Q Mr. President, do you think it was premature to have held the summit when all these things had not been tied down? I mean, in the White House schedule last night, it said signing agreement today. And I wonder whether — as a follow-up question, whether you could sketch out what the next few months look like. Thank you. You always have to be prepared to walk. I could’ve signed an agreement today, and then you people would’ve said, “Oh, what a terrible deal. What a terrible thing he did.” No, you have be prepared to walk. And, you know, there was a potential we could’ve signed something today. I could’ve 100 percent signed something today. We actually had papers ready to be signed, but it just wasn’t appropriate. I want to do it right. I’d much rather do it right than do it fast. Yes, please. Go ahead. Go ahead. Go. First. Go. Yeah. Q You have to speak up. Q I’m a reporter from South Korea, and I appreciate your effort to advance denuclearization in Korean Peninsula. And could you elaborate on the options and the various ways that you discussed with Chairman Kim to advance denuclearization? Could you specify? We discussed many ways. And the denuclearization is a very important — it’s a very important word. Become a very well used word. And a lot of people don’t know what it means, but to me it’s pretty obvious: We have to get rid of the nukes. I think he’s got a chance to have one of the most successful countries — rapidly, too — on Earth. Incredible country, incredible location. You’re right between — if you think of it, you have, on one side, Russia and China, and on the other you have South Korea, and you’re surrounded by water and among the most beautiful shorelines in the world. There is tremendous potential in North Korea, and I think he’s going to lead it to a very important thing, economically. I think it’s going to be an absolute economic power. Yes. Go ahead. Please. Go ahead. Yeah. Q Mr. President, David Sanger from the New York Times. I know, David. Q Six months ago, when you spoke — or eight months ago, in Singapore, you said, if you didn’t have something in six months, we should come back and ask you about it. In that time, you have seen Chairman Kim increase the number of missiles he’s produced and continue to produce more nuclear material. And that’s been a pressure point on you, because he’s showing you the arsenals getting larger while this is going on. Well, some people, David, are saying that, and some people are denying that. They have shots from above — way above — and some people are saying that and some people aren’t. But I could’ve taken that out today, but I think you and others would’ve said we didn’t get enough for what we’d be giving up. So — and, you know, don’t forget, we’re partners with a lot of countries on this, if you think about it, with the sanctions. We have a whole big partnership with the United Nations and many countries, including Russia, China, and others. And then, of course, South Korea is very important to this whole thing, and Japan. I don’t want to do something that is going to violate the trust that we’ve built up. We have a very strong partnership. Q So can you just give us a little more detail? Did you get into the question of actually dismantling the Yongbyon complex? I did. Yes. Absolutely. Q And does he seem willing, ultimately — Totally. Q — to take all of that out? Sure. Totally. Q He does? He just wants all the sanctions off first? He would do that, but he wants the sanctions for that. And as you know, there’s plenty left after that. And I just I felt it wasn’t good. Mike and I spent a long time negotiating and talking about it to ourselves. And just — I felt that that particular, as you know, that facility, while very big, it wasn’t enough to do what we were doing. Q So he was willing to Yongbyon, but you wanted more than that? I assume — We had to have more than that, yeah. We had to have more than that because there are other things that you haven’t talked about, that you haven’t written about, that we found. And we have to have — that was done a long time ago, but the people didn’t know about. Q Including the uranium — And we brought — yeah. Q Including the second uranium enrichment plant? Exactly. And we brought many, many points up that I think they were surprised that we knew. But we had to do more than just the one level. Because if we did the one level, and we gave up all of that leverage that’s been taking a long time to build. And I want to tell you, by the way — Q So he was not willing to take out that second — David, I want to take off the sanctions so badly, because I want that country to grow. That country has got such potential, but they have to give up, or we could’ve done that deal. Mike, you want to speak to that? That’s right. Go ahead. Q Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you. Q I just wanted to clarify, when you talk about what you would willing to give up all of the sanctions for, are you still thinking that you want North Korea to give up everything to do complete, verifiable denuclearization — Well, I don’t want to say that to you — Q — before you lift sanctions? Yeah. Yeah. It’s a good question. I don’t want to say that to you because I don’t want to put myself in that position, from the standpoint of negotiation. But, you know, we want a lot to be given up. And we’re giving up. And we’ll have to — you know, we’ll be helping them along economically, us and other — many other countries are going to be helping. They’re going to be in there. They’re prepared to help. I can tell you: Japan, South Korea, I think China. So many. And speaking of China, we’re very well on our way to doing something special, but we’ll see. I mean, I am always prepared to walk. I’m never afraid to walk from a deal. And I would do that with China, too, if it didn’t work out. Q Are you concerned, if you’re not able to reach an agreement, that the testing will start again? Or that while all of this time is happening by — Well, he said the testing — yeah. Q — they are continuing to develop their program? He said the testing will not start. He said that he’s not going to do testing of rockets or missiles or anything having to do with nuclear. And all I can tell you is that’s what he said. And we’ll see. Yes, go ahead. Please. Go ahead, please. In the back. Red. In the red. Q Thank you. Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, thank you. Q Jessica Stone from CGTN. I have a question about China, as you were talking about. You talk about China being willing, potentially, to help economically. And the fact that you’ve talked — or will talk to Presidents Moon and Prime Minister Abe, how would you describe China’s role in facilitating the engagement that’s happened, so far, between Pyongyang and Washington? I think China has been a big help. Bigger than most people know. On the border, as you know, 93 percent of the goods coming into North Korea come through China. So there’s a great power there. At the same time, I believe — I happen to believe that North Korea is calling its own shots. They’re not taking orders from anybody. He’s a very strong guy. And they’re able to do things that are pretty amazing. But 93 percent still come in from China. China has an influence, and China has been a big help. And Russia has been a big help too. As you know, there’s a pretty small part of the border, but nevertheless significant — about 28 miles. And things can happen there too. And they’ve been a help. Yes, go ahead, please. Q Thanks, President. Jen Chen with Shenzhen Media Group of China. In your meeting with Chairman Kim this morning and yesterday, did the topic of China come up? If so, what can you share with us today? And you probably will have the of Mar-a-Lago summit in March with Chinese President Xi Jinping. What would you like accomplished with your agenda regarding China at that time? Thank you. We did talk about China today a lot. And he’s getting along with China and so are we. And we are — you know, we’re — we’re, right now, you look at what’s happened to our country; we’ve picked up trillions and trillions of dollars of net worth. Our stock market is almost at its all-time high. Our economy is incredible. Our unemployment numbers are among the best we’ve ever had in our history. Individual groups like African American, women — you just take a look at any group; Hispanic, you saw that just came out — the best in history; African American, best in history. So many different numbers are coming out so good. So we have the strongest economy, probably, possibly that we’ve ever had. Fiat Chrysler just announced that they’re going to spend $4.5 billion right next to Detroit, in Michigan. They’re building a tremendous plant. It’s actually an expansion of another plant. It’s going to be — it’s going to double up their jobs, and even more than that. A lot of great things are happening. And with China, they’re having some difficulty, as you know. But I think that a lot of the difficulty is because of the tariffs that they’re having. And in addition to that, we’re putting a tremendous amount of money; you saw trade deficits went down last month. Everybody was trying to find out why. Well, we’re taking in a lot of tariff money, and it’s going right to the bottom line and it has reduced the trade deficits. So we’ll see what happens with China. I think we have a very good chance. Their numbers are down. But I don’t want that. I want their numbers — I want them to do great. But we’ve been losing anywhere from $300- to $500 billion a year with China for many, many years. And again, like other things, many Presidents should have done this before me, and nobody did. So we’re doing it. Go ahead. Go ahead, please. Right here. This gentleman. Q Chad O’Carroll from NK News, with North Korea News. What’s your message for President Moon, who has effectively reached the glass ceiling, as far inter-Korean cooperation is concerned, due to sanctions? And what’s next for U.S.-ROK military drills? Well, I like President Moon very much. We have a great relationship. Believe it or not, I have a great relationship with almost every leader. A lot of people find that hard to understand, but I do. But some take advantage of our country like you wouldn’t believe. And when they know I know it — which I know in every case — maybe it sort of freezes them up a little bit. But we do; we have a lot of good relationships. We’ll be calling President Moon very soon, as soon as I get by the phone, on the plane. And he’ll be one of the first calls. I’ll be calling Prime Minister Abe of Japan, telling him about where we are and what we’re doing. But I’ll be making those calls. No, he’s working very hard. President Moon is working very hard. He’d love to see a deal and he’s been very helpful. Okay? Thank you. Go ahead, please. Q Thank you, Mr. President. I’m , reporter from Global Times China. I would like to ask you, what are you expecting China to do in the next step to mediate your relationship with North Korea? Thank you. To use China? Q Yeah, from China. Well, we do. I mean, China has been very helpful. President Xi is a great leader. He’s a highly respected leader all over the world and especially in Asia. And he’s helped us — Mike, I would say he’s helped us a lot, right? We’ve — I actually called him just recently to say, “Hey, you know, whatever you can do on this.” But he has been very helpful at the border, and he’s been very, very helpful with, I think, North Korea generally. Could he be a little more helpful? Probably. But he’s been excellent. Go ahead, please. No — yeah, please. Q next. That’s okay. You’re friends. Q Thanks, Mr. President. Could you — did you commit with Chairman Kim to a next summit during your term? No, we haven’t — no. Q Okay. We’ll see. If it happens, it happens. I have not committed. Q They are, at this point, some would say, a nuclear power. Do you accept North Korea as a nuclear-armed state, at least for the time being? And are you thinking about re-imposing the military exercises with South Korea, or will you keep it a freeze-for-freeze? Well, you know, the military exercises, I gave that up quite a while ago because it costs us $100 million every time we do it. We fly these massive bombers in from Guam. And when I first started, a certain general said, “Oh, yes, sir, we fly them in from Guam. It’s right next door.” Well, right next door is seven hours away. And then they come and they drop millions of dollars of bombs, and then they go back and — But we would spend — I mean, we spent hundreds of millions of dollars on those exercises, and I hated to see it. I thought it was unfair. And, frankly, I was, sort of, of the opinion that South Korea should help us with that. You know, we’re protecting South Korea. I think they should help us with that. So those exercises are very expensive. And I was telling the generals — I said: Look, you know, exercising is fun and it’s nice and they play the war games. And I’m not saying it’s not necessary, because at some levels it is, but at other levels it’s not. But it’s a very, very expensive thing. And you know, we do have to think about that too. But when they spend hundreds of millions of dollars on those exercises and we don’t get reimbursed — we’re spending a tremendous amount of money on many countries, protecting countries that are very rich that can certainly afford to pay us and then some. And those countries — by the way, and those countries know that it’s not right, but nobody has ever asked them before. But I’ve asked them and we’re doing — we’re gaining a lot of money. We’ve picked up over a $100 billion just in NATO over the last two years. A hundred billion dollars more has come in. And we’re doing that with a lot of countries. You’ll be seeing that a lot. Yes, sir. Please. Q Mr. President, sir — Yeah, one second, please. Q Yes, thank you, Mr. President. You have a personal relationship — and I believe Vice President Pence does — with the family of Otto Warmbier. I do. Q I’m wondering — you’ve talked about, this week, about Kim Jong Un being “my friend” — you called him on Twitter. You said you have a great relationship. Have you, in Singapore or here, confronted Kim Jong Un about Otto Warmbier’s death — I have. I have. Q — and asked him to take responsibility? And what did he say to you? And why do you call him your friend? I have. And I have, and we have talked about it. And I really don’t think it was in his interest at all. I know the Warmbier family very well. I think they’re an incredible family. What happened is horrible. I really believe something very bad happened to him, and I don’t think that the top leadership knew about it. And when they had to send him home — by the way, I got the prisoners back. I got the hostages back. And Otto was one of the hostages, but Otto came back in shape that was not even to be talked about. I find it — I thought it was horrible. Now, the others came back extremely healthy. But Otto came back in a condition that was just — just terrible. And I will — I did speak about it, and I don’t believe that he would’ve allowed that to happen. Just wasn’t to his advantage to allow that to happen. Those prisons are rough. They’re rough places. And bad things happened. But I really don’t believe that he was — I don’t believe he knew about it. Q Did he say — did he tell you that he did not — did Kim Jong Un tell you — He felt badly about it. I did speak to him. He felt very badly. But he knew the case very well, but he knew it later. And, you know, you got a lot of people. A big country. A lot of people. And in those prisons and those camps, you have a lot of people. And some really bad things happened to Otto. Some really, really bad things. But he tells me — Q Why are you — He tells me that he didn’t know about it, and I will take him at his word. Yes, ma’am. Go ahead. Please. Please. Go ahead. In the back. Q Me? No, in the back. Behind you. Thank you. Q Mr. President, , Sputnik News Agency. Have you discussed the issue of possible inspections to North Korea’s nuclear sites during your negotiations? You’re going to have to speak a little louder. And where are you from? Where are you from? Q Russia’s Sputnik News Agency. Have you discussed the issue of possible inspections to North Korea’s nuclear sites during your talks with the Chairman? Why don’t you answer that, Mike? I can’t — Q Inspections. Good. Q Inspections. Inspections of nuclear sites. I was worried about my hearing. Q Inspections, sir. Oh, inspections. Q International inspections. Yes. Oh, inspections. Inspections on North Korea? Oh, we’d be able — yeah. Q Yeah. Inspections to the nuclear sites. We’d be able to do that very easily. We have that set up, so we would be able to do that very easily. The inspections on North Korea will take place and we’ll — if we do something with them — we have a schedule set up that is very good. We know things that, as David was asking about certain places and certain sites — there are sites that people don’t know about that we know about. We would be able to do inspections, we think, very, very successfully. Yes, ma’am. Please. Please. Yes, go ahead. Please. Yes. Q Thank you, Mr. President. A lot of people here, by the way. A big group of people. Q Yes. Go ahead. Q Kann News Israel, Mr. President. Good. Good. Q Following this engagement with North Korea, you are trying to bring peace to the Middle East. Right. Q The peace plan is about to be introduced in the near future. And as you have mentioned before — Well, we hope. We hope. We’re working hard on the peace plan and we hope it will be . Q I believe you do. But as you mentioned before, it will require Israel to make compromises to the Palestinians. As far as you know, is Prime Minister Netanyahu willing to make these compromises which are very much needed? And a second question: Mr. Netanyahu is about to indicted today with corruption allegations. Do you wish to tell him something on this occasion? Well, I just think he’s been a great prime minister. And I don’t know about his difficulty, but you’re telling me something that, you know, the people have been hearing about. But I don’t know about that. I can say this: that he’s done a great job as prime minister. He’s tough, he’s smart, he’s strong. He is very defensive. His military has been built up a lot. They buy a lot of equipment from the United States and they pay for it. Of course, we give them tremendous, as you know, subsidy, also. Four billion dollars is a lot each year. But they are — they’ve been very good. They’ve been incredible, actually, in many ways. But there is a chance for peace between Israel and the Palestinians. And, you know, it’s interesting — all of my life, I’ve heard that the toughest of all deals — when they talk about tough deals; we all like deals — but the toughest of all deals would be peace between Israel and Palestinians. They say it’s like the impossible deal. I’d love to be able to produce it. We’ll see what happens. You know, we were paying the Palestinians a lot of money. And I ended that about two years ago because they weren’t saying the right things. And I said, why would we pay somebody that’s not saying nice things about us, and not really wanting to go to the peace table? And they’ve been much better. And we’ll see what happens. Q But has Mr. Netanyahu made concessions? But I think we really — I think we have, actually, a good shot at peace between Israel and the Palestinians. Q Has Netanyahu made concessions? Yeah, go ahead. Please. Sir. Q Mr. President, I’m from China. My question is: Do you still believe it is possible that the North Korea and U.S. relation could be like the U.S. and the Vietnam relation in the future? You have to go again. Q Do you believe — do you still believe that is it is possible that the relation between U.S. and North Korea, in the future, could be like the relation between U.S. and Vietnam? Yeah. I think we’re going have — yeah. I mean, we have very, very good relations. And, by the way, speaking of — you mentioned Japan — we have a lot of good things happening Japan. We have trade talks started. For years, Japan has been sending millions and millions of cars in, and as you know, it’s not been a very fair situation for the United States. We’re starting trade talks with Japan. They actually started about three months ago, and I think we’ll have a very good deal for the United States. But that’s been a very unfair situation. Prime Minister Abe understands that, and that’s fine. Yes, sir. Please. Back there. Q Thank you, Mr. President. I’m with Shanghai Media Group. Do you think the next meeting could be soon, or might take some time? Well, I can’t tell you. I mean, it might be soon. It might not be for a long time. I can’t tell you. I would hope it would be soon. But it may not be for a long time. I could’ve done — I could’ve done a deal today, but it would’ve been a deal that wouldn’t have been a deal that — it would’ve been something that I wouldn’t have been happy about, Mike would not have been happy about. We had some pretty big options. But we just felt it wasn’t appropriate, and we really want to do it right. Yes, in the back. In the back. Yes, ma’am. Please. Q Debi Edward, ITV News. At which point did it become clear to you that you wouldn’t be getting a deal here in Hanoi? The language from yourself and Kim Jong Un was very positive last night and even this morning. And therefore, was it a mistake to come here? No, I think the language was good all throughout. The language has been good even now. But, you know, I don’t go by language, because we had probably the toughest language in the history of diplomacy — if you call it diplomacy — at the beginning, and yet, we became very friendly. I don’t believe there was any tougher language ever than that. But, again, this was something that should’ve been handled by other Presidents long before me and long before they had the kind of power that they have. But it wasn’t. It should’ve been done by many — I’m not just blaming the Obama administration, which, by the way, it did nothing. Nothing. Did absolutely on North Korea. It allowed things that happened, and to happen, that were very inappropriate. But I’m not blaming the Obama administration. I’m blaming many administrations. Something should’ve happened. But I don’t think the rhetoric has been bad at all. Initially, it was horrible, but now it’s been very good. All right, one more. How about you? Go ahead. Please. Please. Go ahead. Q from South Korea, South Korean media outlet here. I’d like to ask you: You said that we do not particularly know when there will be — North Korean leader will be willing to come to the table and take the actions that’s been required. If that’s the case, would the U.S. be willing to strengthen the sanctions and perhaps put the pressure on North Korea to move forward? I don’t want to comment on that. I can just tell you this: that we have very strong sanctions. I don’t want to talk about increasing sanctions. They’re strong. They have a lot of great people in North Korea that have to live also. And that’s important to me. And I would say this: My whole attitude changed a lot because I got to know, as you know, Chairman Kim very well. And they have a point of view also. So I don’t really want to talk about that. I just think that, hopefully, for the sake of South Korea, for the sake of Japan, and frankly, for the sake of China — I was talking to President Xi, who really is a man that gets the respect of a lot of people — I say, “You can’t love having a nuclear state right next to China.” And he doesn’t. He really doesn’t. I will tell you, he would like to see that problem solved, too. So that’s it. Well, ladies and gentleman, I’m about to get on a plane and fly back to a wonderful place called Washington, D.C. So, thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you, fellas. Thank you very much. END 2:53 P.M. ICT
Everybody having a good time? Q Yes, sir. You are? I hope so. One of the great photographers of the world. One of the great. Make us look very good tonight, please. Q We’ll work on that. One of the great photographers, actually. We did. Boy, if you could have heard that dialogue, what you would pay for that dialogue. It was good. So we’re going to have a very busy day tomorrow, and we’ll probably have a pretty quick dinner and a lot of things are going to be solved, I hope. And I think it’ll lead to wonderful — it will lead to, really, a wonderful situation long term. And our relationship is a very special relationship. Thank you very much everybody. Thank you. See you tomorrow. E ND 7:09 P.M. ICT
I think they’ll be very successful. Great relationship. I think they’re going to be very successful. We look forward to it. We both do. Q Have you walked back at all on denuclearization in North Korea? No. Thank you all very much. Thank you. Thank you. Q Mr. President, are you going to declare an end to the Korean War, sir? We’ll see. We’ll be seeing. Thank you. Thank you all very much. You’re coming back here in a while. END 6:29 P.M. ICT
Thank you very much. It’s a great honor to be with the Vice Premier of China, a very highly respected man in China. And we’re negotiating trade and the trade agreement. And we have many representatives from China and — as you’d know, and most of you know who they are — many representatives from the United States. I think we’re getting along very well. Ultimately, I think the biggest decisions and some even smaller decisions will be made by President Xi and myself. And we expect to have a meeting sometime in the not-too-distant future. And I can only say talks are going along well, but we’re going to have to see what happens. I think there’ll be some points that this group won’t agree on because maybe they’re not supposed to agree on, allowed to agree on. And I think President Xi and I will work out the final points, perhaps. And perhaps not. So I just want to say, Mr. Vice Premier, it’s a great honor to have you. And we thank you very much. Would you like to say something? Thank you. Please. So, you can hear fine? You’ll speak for them . Thank you very much. That’s very nice. Say “Thank you very much”; I would really appreciate if you would just give my warmest regards. The video he’s talking about is a video made by Ivanka and Jared, and it’s — their children speak fluent Chinese, even though they’re very young. They were taught, at a very young age, Chinese. And when President Xi met Arabella, who’s the oldest, he said this was like perfect Chinese from a — at the time, it was 5-year old — from a 5-year old girl from Beijing. And I thought that was nice. And they actually made a little video that they sent to President Xi. And if you want, we could even give them — I’m sure the press wouldn’t like to see the video but — — if you would, just in case you would, I think it would be fine. If you’d like to do that, Jared, you could just give it to a few of the people. But it was — I thought it was a very nice thing. And it shows a great friendship between the two countries. And that was really just a “Happy New Year” wish that was given in Chinese by Arabella — mostly by Arabella and her two brothers. So I think it was — I think it’s good. I wouldn’t mind if you gave it. We’re having very good talks. There’s a chance that something very exciting could happen. This is a deal that would be signed by me. I’ve been in touch with Congress. I’ve been telling many of the people in Congress exactly where we are. We’re, right now, getting a 25 percent tariff on $50 billion worth of goods coming in — mostly technology and high technology. We’re getting a 10 percent tariff on $200 billion worth of goods. The 10 percent goes up as of March 1st. It goes to a 25 percent number. So we’d be getting 25 percent on $250 billion. And there’s about $267 billion that’s un-tariffed, untouched, which we’ll discuss later. But if we could make a deal, we wouldn’t have to bother with that discussion. So we’ll see what happens. But we’ve had very good talks. As you know, Mr. Lighthizer has done a great job. But it’s only a great job, Bob, if you get it finished, right? And if it’s a deal that’s a good deal for both. And, Steve, great. But it’s only great if you get it done. Wilbur, Sonny — Sonny doesn’t care; he just wants a lot of products being bought from the farmers. Is that right, Sonny? That’s what you care about. Sonny is more interested in the farmers than he is any other aspect. But Larry Kudlow, Mr. Ambassador — the longest-serving governor in the history of the country, as you know. And now he’s ambassador to China. But he was the Governor of Iowa for 24 years, right? Okay, but you were still the longest — It’s the longest-serving governor in the history of our country. I believe — — from the time. And you’ve done a great job as governor and you’re doing a great job as the ambassador to China. And I might tell the story that when the ambassador was a young man from Iowa, he was in China. And he was dealing with people from China — both in Iowa and in China. And he met a man who was a young man, and he is now the head of China — President Xi. And he said to his wife — he came home — and this was how many years ago, Mr. Ambassador? Right, but — — you met him in 1978 or so, right? So he met him, and he came home and he told his wife, “I just met the next President of China.” And they say, “How would you know?” He said, “Because the competence of this man is so enormous that I believe he’s going to be the next President of China.” And years go by, and he became the next President of China. And they like each other. So when it came time to picking an ambassador from China, I say, “I think I have the right guy. He happens to be governor of the great state of Iowa.” And you have done a fantastic job. But I thought that story was incredible. So, many years ago, he said that he knows who the next President of China is going to be. I thought — I just think it’s a great story. And his wife confirms it fully, so that’s good. So I just want to thank everybody for being here. We’re going to have discussions right now. We’re talking. And again, I think we’re making a lot of progress. I think there’s a very, very good chance that a deal could be made. We’ll be meeting at some point with President Xi — assuming we go further along the line, Bob. Could you say a couple of words to that as to the potential of a meeting — whether or not we will ? Made great progress. I think we have made great progress. Steve Mnuchin, what would you say? Why do you bother putting it in a form of a letter of intent or whatever you want to call it? To me, it’s a waste of time. Currency manipulation — a very important subject which a lot people didn’t even think in terms of. Have you discussed and reached a final agreement on currency? To stabilize currencies. Okay. Wilbur Ross. No, I agree with that. Secretary, go ahead. For the farmers, . I think we’re doing very well with regard to farmers and the buying of products from our farmers at a certain point. They’ve already made a big commitment to do that. But this will be a very, very substantial farm deal. This will be the biggest farm deal ever made, if you think about it. I don’t think anything will be close, because it’s China. So hopefully, if we arrive at a deal, they’ll be buying lots of every form of farm product. Mr. Ambassador, would you say something, if you’d like? Thank you. Yeah, it’s going very well. Peter, would you like to say something? This is a gentleman that loves tariffs, by the way. He’s like me. He and I — he loves tariffs. Peter, go ahead. Right. Right. Okay. That’s all you have to say? But it’s — it’s true. Good. They’re doing a good job. Larry. I think the relationship has been very good. That’s what I will say, more than anything else. As to whether we make a deal or not, who knows? But I think we have a good chance. But I think the relationship is outstanding. I think the relationship that we have now with China is better than it’s ever been. And that’s being — you know, making a big statement. Our relationship, the President — the President’s relationship with me, President Xi’s relationship with me — I think that it’s the strongest it’s ever been. One of the things that’s so important to me is the fentanyl. And President Xi has agreed to criminalize the sale of fentanyl. Right now, it’s not a criminal product because I guess they call it “industrial,” or they call it something. But it’s not a criminal product. And China has much tougher laws than we do in this country on drugs, so they don’t have a big drug problem in China. They have a thing called the death penalty. And China has much tougher laws than we do. But they’ve agreed to criminalize the sale of fentanyl, including the sale of fentanyl to the United States. And that is a tremendous thing because, as you know, most of it, if not all of it, comes from China. That would be a tremendous thing, in terms of our war on drugs. So I very much appreciate that. And that’s another thing we’ll be finalizing, hopefully, at the meeting that we have. So subject to where they are — and we’re going to have a meeting now — but subject to where they are, we will be having at least an additional meeting. And then, ultimately, we’ll have a meeting with myself and President Xi to discuss the final terms and things that haven’t been agreed to. But I think a lot of those things have been agreed to, but they want he and I to agree to them in a final form. But the fentanyl is so important to us. The criminalization of fentanyl is so important to us, and we appreciate that. I want to just thank everybody for being with us. Mr. Vice Premier, I want to thank you very much. Their trip is being extended, as Steve said. Their trip is being extended by two days, unexpectedly, because they are making great progress. So they’ll be here for an extra couple of days. So what would that include? That would be Sunday, Monday? Or — All day Sunday. So they’ll be leaving on Sunday night and Monday morning. So, great progress being made. Let’s see what happens. Thank you all very much. I appreciate it. Q Mr. President, do you expect to extend the deadline because of the progress here? Or will you still stick with March 1st? Well, I set the deadline of March 1st, and right now it’s at 10 percent. And I think that if — I mean, you can tell this to President Xi — I think — and if I see progress being made, substantial progress being made, it would not be inappropriate to extend that deadline — keep it at 10 percent, instead of raising it to 25 percent. And I would be inclined to doing that. I haven’t even spoken to my people about it. Most people assume it’ll just kick in automatically — the 25 percent. But I’m the one that said it, and I think it was a reasonable period of time. But we’re covering things that we didn’t even know we’d be covering. We’re going very deep into the trade, and covering items that a lot of people wanted to cover and nobody thought we’d ever get to. But we have a one-time shot at making a great deal for both countries. And so we are going to give it. So it depends on where we are. If we’re doing well — Jeff, if we’re doing very well on the negotiation, I could see extending that. And I don’t think it would have to be a long-term extension because I would imagine that if it took, Steve, another month or so or less — Yeah. So dependent on how they do over the next few days, I would certainly consider that. Okay? Q Is drawing down U.S. troops a consideration? Is drawing down U.S. troops a consideration in your upcoming summit with North Korean Kim Jong Un? And — No, it’s not. No. That was not a consideration. That’s not — that is not one of the things on the table. Q What is on the table? Oh, you really want me to discuss that now? Q I do. Everything is on the table. Everything. Q Mr. President, do have any concerns about the Labor Secretary tampering with the Jeffrey Epstein case? I really don’t know too much about it. I know he’s done a great job as Labor Secretary. And that seems like a long time ago. But I know he’s been a fantastic Labor Secretary. That’s all I can really tell you about. That’s all I know about. Q What about the charges against Bob Kraft? He’s a friend of yours. Well, it’s very sad. I was very surprised to see it. He’s proclaimed his innocence totally, and — but I’m very surprised to see it. Q Have you spoken with Bill Barr about the release of the Mueller report? Have you spoken with him about that? No, I have not. No. Q You’ve said nothing to him about it? I have not. Q Do you expect to? At some point, I guess I’ll be talking about it. But you know the nice part? There was no collusion. There was no obstruction. There was no anything. So that’s the nice part. There was no phone calls, no nothing. We have a — I won a race. You know why I won the race? Because I was a better candidate than she was. And it had nothing to do with Russia, and everybody knows it’s a hoax. It’s one of the greatest hoaxes ever perpetrated on this country. So I look forward to seeing the report. If it’s an honest report, it will say that. If it’s not an honest report, it won’t. Yeah, go ahead. Q You’ve been at this and your teams have been at this trade deal for a long time. Yeah, well, it’s not a long time when you consider it’s probably the biggest deal ever made. Q It seems like it’s getting close to the finish line. At this point, when you boil it all down, do you believe it’s more likely that a deal does happen or a deal doesn’t happen? Well, I think I can speak for the United States — the question is an interesting one. Is it more likely that a deal happens or doesn’t happen? Speaking for the United States, I would say it’s probably more likely that a deal does happen. But that doesn’t mean it’s going to happen. Speaking for China, if you’d like to add — answer that question, you can. But I would say that it’s more likely that a deal will happen. The fact that they’re staying — and this is a very high delegation. This is a man who is revered all throughout China, as the Vice Premier. So the fact that they’re willing to stay for a quite a bit longer period — doubling up the time — that means something. I think there’s a good chance that it happens. Go ahead. Would you like to answer that question? Q Mr. President — Wait. Would you like to answer that question? Yes, please. Speak Chinese and you — you’ll speak louder. They can’t hear you. You have to speak louder. I’m sorry. I think we both feel that way. I think we both feel that there’s a very good chance that the deal will happen. Q Mr. President, on troops in Syria, why are you reversing course? I’m not reversing course. I have done something that nobody else has been able to do. In another short period of time, like hours — you’ll be hearing “hours and days” — you’ll be hearing about the caliphate. It will — it’s 100 percent defeated. Nobody has been able to say that. That doesn’t mean there aren’t some very bad people walking around and strapping on bombs and all of these things. But we’ve done a job that nobody else has been able to do. I heard Lindsey Graham this morning congratulating me on having defeated the cal- — you know, the caliphate. And, frankly, I’m getting a lot of congratulations. At the same time, we can leave a small force along with others in the force — whether it’s NATO troops or whoever it might be — so that it doesn’t start up again. And I’m okay — it’s a very small, tiny fraction of the people that we have. And a lot of people like that idea and I’m open to ideas. But the 2,500 people that we’ve had there will be going to different parts of the world. They may be going over to Iraq, where we have a very powerful base — a base that cost billions of dollars to build, frankly, and that we’ll be using. But we have had tremendous success in defeating the caliphate. And now everybody is admitting I did more in the last three or four weeks than people have done in years. And it’s been very successful, but we want to make sure it stays that way. Yes. Please. Q Tech transfers — going back to the trade deal — we’ve heard that you haven’t made a whole lot of progress on the tech transfers — Do you want to talk about the transfers? Tech — Q Does that still have to be part of the deal — Yeah, I’ll let Bob answer that. Go ahead, Bob. Q Thanks. Well, I condemn any election fraud. And when I look at what’s happened in California with the votes, when I look at what happened — as you know, there was just a case where they found a million fraudulent votes. When I look at what’s happened in Texas — Q There haven’t been any cases — Excuse me. Excuse me. When I look at what’s happened in Texas. When I look at that catastrophe that took place in Florida where the Republican candidates kept getting less and less and less and less. And fortunately, Rick Scott and Ron ended up winning their election, but it was disgraceful what happened there. So I look at a lot of different places all over the country. I condemn any voter fraud of any kind, whether it’s Democrat or Republican — or when you look at some of the things that happened in California, in particular. When you look at what’s happened in Texas with all of those votes that they recently found were not exactly properly done, I condemn all of it. And that includes North Carolina, if anything — you know, I guess they’re going to be doing a final report. But I’d like to see the final report. But any form of election fraud, I condemn. Q Mr. President, when do you want to have that meeting with President Xi? And do expect to have that at Mar-a-Lago? Probably at Mar-a-Lago. Probably fairly soon, during the month of March. Bob, do you have a date? Steve, do you have a date? Okay, so there — we have two schedules. And we’ll be planning that with the schedule. Q Do you have any concerns about Michael Cohen’s testimony before Congress this week? No. No. No. It’s lawyer-client, but, you know — he’s taking his own chances. Q Where do things stand with Huawei and ZTE? Would you still consider a ban of Chinese technology? Well, ZTE paid a big fine of $1.2 billion, which nobody has ever even heard of before. And we want everybody to compete. And I guess it will be somewhat of a subject that we’re talking about here, Bob. We’ll be talking about it. We may or may not include that in this deal. Q Include what? Q Would you drop criminal charges? The Huawei and ZTE. Q Would you drop criminal charges against Huawei as part of this deal? We’re going to be discussing all of that during the course of the next couple of weeks. And we’ll be talking to the U.S. Attorneys. We’ll be talking to the Attorney General. But we’ll be making that decision. Right now it’s not something that we’re discussing. Q Do you think that Republicans will stick with you on the — on your emergency declaration and vote against the joint resolution? Oh, I think they’ll stick. Yeah. Everybody knows we need border security. We need a wall. I think it’s a very bad subject for the Democrats. We need a wall. We’ve apprehended more people than we have in many, many years. “Apprehended,” meaning we’ve gotten. With the wall, we wouldn’t even have to apprehend them if we had the proper structure. It’s costing us a lot of money with the military; we have a lot of military there. We have tremendous border control and border security there. We have — I’ll tell you what, the people of border security, people of ICE, the law enforcement, generally speaking, have done an incredible job at the border. We have caravans heading up and we’re able to head out the caravans. We’ve done a great job. But if we had the wall, it would be much easier. And, frankly, it would be a job that would be perfecto. And it would cost actually, ultimately, a lot less money. Q So you don’t think that the joint resolution — Q Mr. President — What? Q Okay, I have question from China Daily. I — you – China Daily. Q — you tweeted yesterday that the U.S. would not block out, currently, more advanced technology in terms of 5Gs, 6Gs. What do you mean? Well, I’d like to have all companies be able to compete. I don’t want to artificially block people out based on excuses or based on security. I don’t want to have a security problem. Q Including Huawei? Wait. I’m talking about everybody, really — including. But I’m talking about everybody. I don’t want to use artificial blocking. We want to have great 5G. Ultimately, that’s going to morph into 6G. And probably 6G will be obsolete in about two months, the way it’s going — you know, the way that whole world moves. But 6G, at some point in the future, will be obsolete. But I want to have competition with China. Fair competition. I don’t want to block out anybody if we can help it. Now if there’s going to be a security reason or something, then we have no choice, but that is one of the things we’ll be discussing today. We want to have open competition. We’ve always done very well in open competition. Go ahead. Q Mr. President, your officials mentioned that was a deal on currency. Can you explain to us what that was? Well, we’ll let you know at the appropriate time, but we have a deal on currency and currency manipulation. Yes. Q Will you definitively veto that resolution that was introduced today that would block your national emergency if it passes? On the wall? Q Yes. Will I veto it? 100 percent. 100 percent. And I don’t think it survives a veto; we have too many smart people that want border security, so I can’t imagine it could survive a veto. But I will veto it, yes. Q Mr. President, last year you had dropped all U.S. assistance to Pakistan because of terrorists coming from there. No, I stopped paying Pakistan the $1.3 billion that we were paying them. In the meantime, we may set up some meetings with Pakistan. Pakistan was very taking very strong advantage of the United States under other Presidents and we were paying Pakistan $1.3 billion a year. I ended that payment to Pakistan because they weren’t helping us in a way that they should have. And honestly, we’ve had — we’ve developed a much better relationship with Pakistan over the last short period of time than we had. But I did; I ended the payment. We were paying Pakistan $1.3 billion a year. I ended that about nine months ago. A lot of people don’t know that, but I ended it nine months ago. Q But terrorists are still coming from Pakistan, attacking in Afghanistan and India . But what are you talking about? What are you — what are you trying to refer to? You’ll have to speak up. I can’t hear you. Q Terrorists coming from Pakistan have attacked Indian forces in Kashmir. That’s right. No, it’s a terrible thing going on right now between Pakistan and India. It’s a very, very bad situation, and it’s a very dangerous situation between the two countries. And we would like to see it stop. A lot of people were just killed and we want to see it stopped. We’re very much involved in that. Yes, if that’s what you’re referring to. Q People in India are seeking right to self-defense — No, India is looking at something very strong. And, I mean, India just lost almost 50 people and — with an attack, so I can understand that also. But we’re talking and a lot of people are talking, but it is a very, very delicate balance going on right now. There’s a lot of problems between India and Pakistan because of what just happened in Kashmir. Are you talking about Kashmir? Q Yeah. In Kashmir, it’s very dangerous. Yes, please. Q Mr. President, on Huawei, sir, just one quick follow-up: Are you planning an executive order on Huawei? Well, we’re not doing anything right now. We may or may not put that in the trade agreement. We may be discussing it, but we’d only do that in conjunction with the Attorney General of the United States because that is a matter that is outside of what we’re doing. So we do that with the Attorney General, if we do anything. And I guess there’s a question as to whether or not that’s being included in the agreement. Yeah, go ahead. Q Mr. President, we haven’t gotten your response yet to Amazon pulling out of New York City, your home city — I think it’s a big loss to New York City. I think it’s a big loss. I think it’s a — if you look at the deal, the deal was not a great deal from the standpoint of — they could’ve made a better deal than that, a much better deal. But still, I think it’s a loss for New York City. And the $3 billion wasn’t a check; it was a form of taxes over a period of time that now they’ll never see because, you know, they were going to take in a lot of jobs; they were going to take in a lot taxes. So I think it’s a big loss for New York City. It’s the kind of thinking that our country is going to, on the Left, on the radical Left. But ultimately, it’s not good for jobs and it’s not good for the economy. But I think it was a big loss for New York City. I come from New York City. I love New York City. I think it was big loss for New York City. Yes, sir. Q Mr. President, when were you briefed, sir, on the Coast Guard member who was arrested for threatening Democrats and other members of the media? I’m actually getting a very final briefing and a very complete briefing in about two hours after this. Q And do you have any thoughts on this man — I think it’s a shame. Q — who went after members of the media? Yeah. I think it’s a very sad thing, I mean, when a thing like that happens. And I’ve expressed that, but I’m actually a very complete briefing in about two hours. Q Do you think that you bear any responsibility for moderating your language when it comes to that? No, I don’t. I think my language is very nice. Yes. Q From People’s Daily China — From China. From China. Q Trade conflict have been one year. Now negotiation is going on. So what’s your — what do you think? Who are you with in China? Q People’s Daily China newspaper. People’s Daily. Q Yeah. And then what do you think — that cooperation is still the good solution between the two — Great cooperation. Q Yeah. We have great cooperation, both ways, with China. And a lot of good things are happening. I mean, I think you see that. So many people, every day, “They are going to make a deal; they aren’t going to make a deal.” They don’t know. They have no idea. It’s fake news. You know, it’s one of those things. Do they have fake news in China? I think so. But it’s a question: Are they going to make a deal? Aren’t they? I think we have a very good chance of making a deal. But both parties want to make it a meaningful deal. We don’t want to make a deal that doesn’t — I can speak for the Vice Premier, I can speak for President Xi, I can speak for myself: Both parties want to make this a real deal and we want to make it a meaningful deal, not a deal that’s done and doesn’t mean anything. We want to make this a deal that’s going to last for many, many years, and a deal that’s going to be good for both countries. But we want to make it meaningful. Now, with that being said, China has the advantage of having many years of tremendous success at the expense of the United States, so they understand that. And I never blamed China for that; I blamed our past leaders. Our leaders have done a lousy job with trade. Our country lost $800 billion last year with trade, generally. Eight hundred billion dollars. So the Vice Premier understands that. So this same agreement should have been made 20 years ago, not now. Because, for 20 years, the United States has been really taken advantage of. And I’m not blaming China, but we should’ve done the same thing to them. But we didn’t do that. We had Presidents that didn’t do their job. You want to know the truth? We had Presidents that did not do their job. Yeah, go ahead. Q Will the MOUs be a long-term deal? How long would your MOUs stay in place? I think the MOU is going to be very short-term — no. I — we expect to go into — I don’t like MOUs because they don’t mean anything. To me, they don’t mean anything. I think you’re better off just going into a document. I was never a fan of an By the way, I disagree. I think that a memorandum of understanding is not a contract to the extent that we want. We’re going to have — we’re doing a memorandum of understanding that will be put into a final contract, I assume. But, to me, the final contract is really the thing, Bob — and I think you mean that, too — is really the thing that means something. A memorandum of understanding is exactly that: It’s a memorandum of what our understanding is. But, to me, the contract is — the real question is, Bob, so we do a memorandum of understanding, which, frankly, you could do or not do. I don’t care if you do it or not. To me, it doesn’t mean very much. But if you do a memorandum of — how long will it take to put that into a final, binding contract? Right. Good. Are they going to put that into another agreement? Good. Good. I like that much better. I like that term much better. I don’t — I wouldn’t go into a memorandum. I would go right into a trade agreement. Either you’re going to make a deal, or you’re not. To have these other agreements doesn’t mean anything — — because they’re not that meaningful, in my opinion. But anyway, I like that much better. Q Mr. President, what do you think needs to be done after your meeting with Lynne Patton on NYCHA? On what? Q Are you going to be meeting with Lynne Patton of the New York City Housing Authority? Yeah, Lynne Patton is great. And I can tell you, the New York City Housing Authority — the Mayor of New York has done a terrible job with public housing. We’re trying to help them, but the Mayor of the City of New York has done a terrible job with respect to public housing. We’re getting reports back, and it’s a disgrace how badly New York City handles its public housing. Q Do you have any thoughts on Bill de Blasio heading to Iowa? Well, I think he has to learn how to run New York City before he starts running the country because he hasn’t done a very good job — including, by the way, with Amazon. Q On North Korea, your own administration officials say that Kim Jong Un has not actually decided yet whether he wants to denuclearize. So how can you meet with him if he doesn’t even want to get the goal that you want? We have had such a great relationship, and China has helped us a lot with North Korea and with Kim Jong Un since I got to office. If I were not elected President, you would have been in a war with North Korea. We now have a situation where the relationships are good — where there has been no nuclear testing, no missiles, no rockets. We got our hostages back. And we have many of the remains back, and coming back rapidly — the remains of our great warriors from many, many years ago. And the families are so thrilled and so happy. We’ve had a great relationship. The Singapore was a tremendous success. Only the fake news likes to portray it otherwise. We would’ve gone — we would’ve been — we would have literally been in a war with North Korea, in my opinion, had I not been elected. Okay. Thank you very much everybody. Q Thank you. We’ll see how it goes. I think it will be successful. Q Do you think Steve King should run again for Congress? I can’t hear you. You have to speak up. Q Do you think Steve King should run again for Congress? He said he’d run. You know, I don’t know anything about the situation. When did he announce that? Q He said — today, he said he wanted to run. I have not seen it. He hasn’t told me anything. So we’ll have to take a look. Q Are you still in touch with him? I haven’t spoken to him in a long time, no. I haven’t spoken — I have not been involved in that. Thank you very much everyone. END 3:07 P.M. EST
Thank you very much. It’s a great honor to have the Vice Premier of China with us, and also the Vice Minister of Trade of China. We have had long discussions. This has been going on for quite some time. It will be, by far, if it happens, the biggest deal ever made — not only the biggest trade deal ever made. It will be the biggest trade deal by far, but it’ll also be the biggest deal ever made. The two largest countries doing a trade deal. There won’t be anything that will match that. And we’ll see what happens. We’ve done very well. We’ve had a very, very strong relationship, as my relationship is with President Xi. I think we’ll start by reading the letter that President Xi sent to me and to us. It puts us off to a good foot. And then we’ll also repeat a couple of the remarks that the Vice Premier stated. And then we are going to have Mr. Lighthizer speak for a couple of seconds. And we’re then going to get back to business, and you can go and have fun and write your stories. So thank you very much for being here. We appreciate it. And if you could start by reading the letter from President Xi, and maybe you could speak louder. That’s a beautiful letter and we appreciate it. You may go with the Vice Premier’s statements, and then I’m going to ask for you to say a few words, Bob, if you don’t mind. Please. Well, thank you very much. Bob, maybe you could say just a few words as to where we are, how we’re doing, what we’re discussing. And then maybe I’ll ask the Vice Premier to say a few words, and we’ll get on with our negotiations. Perhaps, go ahead, if you want to say that. Got it? He speaks very good English. And you’ll be going in early February, with your group, to China to continue negotiations. Okay. Thank you very much. I appreciate it. And we look forward to that, and we look forward to the results of your trip. But you’re really discussing it anyway, whether you’re in China or here. We have a thing called the telephone and other means of talking. So I know you’re spending a lot of time, and it’s moving along well. So I just want to say the Vice Premier is a friend of mine. He has become — he is truly one of the most respected men in Asia, one of the most respected men in all of China, and, frankly, one of the most respected men anywhere in the world. And it’s a great honor to have you with us. And if you’d like to say a few words — please, Liu. We’ll be going. And we look forward to that. And then a little back-and-forth, and ultimately, I know that I’ll be meeting with President Xi, maybe once and maybe twice, and it’ll all seem — it seems to be coming together. I do appreciate the fact that you said so much about our farmers and that you’ll be doing purchases quickly about the farmers. That’s really wonderful. Five million — Five million tons of soybeans. Wow. Per day. That’s going to make our farmers very happy. That’s a lot of soybeans. That’s really nice. And I know they said some other things, and we’ll put out a release for the press. But the relationship is very, very good between China and the United States. And the personal relationships are very good, with the Vice Premier, with myself and President Xi, and with our representatives. It’s been very, very good. And, you know, you read a lot of things. Sometimes you hear good, sometimes you don’t hear good. But I will say that I think that the relationship that we have right now with China has never been so advanced. I don’t think it’s ever been better. But I can you tell you for a fact, it’s never been so advanced. And certainly a deal has never been so advanced. Because, essentially, we don’t have a deal. We never had a trade deal. We’re going to have a great trade deal. But we never really had a trade deal with China, and now we’re going to have a great trade deal with China, if it all works out. And we look forward to it. It’s going to be great for both countries — not just us, not just them. This is going to be great for both countries. And I know you’ve already done a lot of opening up China to the financial services industry. It’s been happening very much, very rapidly. And hopefully we can get that done for our farmers, our manufacturers, and likewise, the United States. So it’s just an honor to be with you. And I will see you today, but I’ll see you a lot over the next month, that I can tell you. Okay? Thank you very much. It’s a great honor. Thank you. Q Mr. President, when do you want to meet with President Xi? We haven’t set up a meeting yet. I think we’re working on seeing where everybody is, and then we’ll meet to discuss some final issues. It may be a lot, it may be a small amount. But I have a feeling it will be agreed to pretty quickly by both countries. Both countries would like to see a positive result. Q And have you seen enough progress, based on what you’ve heard from your team so far, on IP and technology transfers? Yeah. Yeah, very much. Technology transfer, IT. I think that we have made tremendous progress. That doesn’t mean you’re going to have a deal, but I can say that there is a tremendous relationship and warm feeling, and we’ve made tremendous progress. Q Mr. President, did you talk to your intelligence chiefs today about the displeasure you had with their ? I did. And they said that they were totally misquoted and they were totally — it was taken out of context. So what I’d do is I’d suggest that you call them. They said it was fake news, so — which, frankly, didn’t surprise me. Q We just ran exactly what they said to Congress. Excuse me. Excuse me. It didn’t surprise me at all. But we’re here to talk right now about China. Q Did the fact they didn’t bring up the border as the world threat assessment, did that undermine or undercut what you have said — that there’s a crisis at the border? It didn’t undermine anything. We need a wall. And if we don’t have a wall, we’re never going to have security for our country. Q But they didn’t bring it up as part of the national security assessment. Next. Q Does that undercut — Please. Q Is there any more detail about the soybean offer and deal? Well, I think it’s so nice that — you said soybeans? Q Yes, sir. That’s a tremendous purchase, which will take place now. And our farmers are going to be very happy. Q When does that start? When is the soybean taking place? They’ve already started. So they’ve started on a smaller scale, and today they’re starting very big. And I very much appreciate that. Please tell President Xi. And on behalf of the agricultural industry, and on behalf of our farmers, frankly, we appreciate it very much. It’s a very big order. They like the U.S. farmers. Well, we have good product. And you can use it, and it’s — No, but I really appreciated that. That was really fantastic to say. And that’s before we make a deal. It’s a fantastic sign of faith. Q Mr. President, was the Huawei case discussed during negotiations? No, we haven’t discussed that yet. It will be, but it hasn’t been discussed yet. Q In what aspect? How will it be discussed? Well, it will be discussed. I’m sure at some point that’ll be — that, actually, as big as it might seem, is very small compared to the overall deal, but that will be discussed. Anything else? Q Mr. President, is the plan the trips to see Xi and to meet Chairman Kim again? Excuse me? Q Would you combine the trips to see Chairman Kim for your meeting again? It’s possible. We’ll see how it is. We haven’t discussed it yet. When President Xi and I meet, we want to have it down so that we have certain points that we can discuss and, I would say, agree to. But we’re not quite at that stage yet. But all of these representatives and these representatives are coming to a conclusion, except for certain very important points. And we want to make it comprehensive. We want to make a deal that we can look at and be proud of for many years — not where we have to go back and renegotiate, or we left things out. So whether it’s intellectual property or whether it’s any of the other things that we discuss all the time, we want to try — would you say? — have everything included. We want to have it very comprehensive. Q What are the specific points that you feel like you need to negotiate one on one with him personally? Well, we really — we really have discussed many of those points today. But I would say, probably more than any other thing, every single point that you discuss in the newspapers and on television. Those are the points that we’re discussing. I don’t think I’ve ever heard of any point that was discussed by the folks that really represent you, and represent you well. It’s every single one of those points have been discussed in our transactions and our trade deal — in this trade deal. Q Mr. President, you said earlier you would be willing to postpone this. What did you mean by that? Do you want to extend the deadline? Or what did you mean by that? We haven’t talked about extending the deadline. The deadline is March 1st. That deadline has stayed, and we really haven’t talked about it. Maybe we don’t — I don’t think we have to extend. Now, at a certain point, you’re going to have — this is a very complex, and a very large — it’s the largest transaction ever made, to be perfectly straight. We have to get this put on paper at some point if we agree. There are some points that we don’t agree to yet, but I think we will agree. I think, when President Xi and myself meet, every point will be agreed to. One of the things that we discussed in Argentina was fentanyl. This is not a trade deal, this is a fact that President Xi was extremely good when he said that they would criminalize fentanyl, because fentanyl is killing a lot of our great American people. And if they did what they are going to do, it would very much halt or at least — I think it would stop fentanyl from coming into this country, which would be a tremendous thing. And so that’s a separate than a trade deal, but it’s a very important thing. Q Mr. Lighthizer mentioned enforcement. How do you envision an enforcement mechanism working? Well, I think we’re going to have strong enforcement language both ways. They want enforcement, too. And I think we’re going to have it both ways, and we’ll have strong enforcement language. This is a serious deal that we’re doing. This could be done very quickly, very easily, but it wouldn’t be comprehensive; it would be small. And I just want to end by saying it really is a sign of good faith for China to buy that much of our soybeans and other product that they’ve just committed to us prior to the signing of the deal — is something that makes us very proud to be dealing with them. I think that the farmers who have already been notified of this by me and my representatives — and by Sonny. Sonny Perdue is here, the Secretary of Agriculture. I think that was music to your ears, Sonny. And that’s a big number. That’s a big number even for you to hear. Right? Will you let the farmers know right away? And that was more than even soybeans — that was the other things that we discussed before the press came in. They discussed other things that they are buying also. So, Sonny, if you let everybody know, that would be great. Were you surprised to hear that? Ah, that’s going to keep the farmers busy. That’s going to keep them busy. That’s a big order. So let’s keep going. Let’s start our discussions and we’ll ask the media to leave. Thank you all very much. We appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you. Q Is Secretary Mnuchin going over with Ambassador Lighthizer? I think so. Steve, you’re going? Are you going? Are you going, too? Ask Mnuchin. She wanted to know about Mnuchin. Q Is there a date for that? It’s moving along well. The end of the month. The end of February. Q Any other details you can provide? Early next week, probably State of the Union. Okay? Q President Xi? One way or the other. END 4:04 P.M. EST
It’s an incredible deal. It goes down, certainly — if it happens, it goes down as one of the largest deals ever made. It’s a deal between the United States and China made by the President and the President. And it’ll have an incredibly positive impact on farming, meaning agriculture, industrial products, computers — every type of product. And what I’d be doing is holding back on tariffs. China will be opening up. China will be getting rid of tariffs. You know, China right now has major trade barriers — they’re major tariffs — and also major non-tariff barriers, which are brutal. China will be getting rid of many of them. And China will be buying massive amounts of product from us, including agricultural from our farmers — tremendous amount of agricultural and other products. So it’s been really something. You may also want to say that the President has agreed that if the Qualcomm deal that they rejected — which was one of the larger deals of its kind, which China rejected — if that deal came back to him, he would most likely approve it quickly, which is a big thing. And North Korea, which we didn’t get into, we’ve agreed that we will work very strongly on North Korea. I have a very good relationship with Kim Jong Un. And we will — and don’t forget, we’ve been doing that for what — six, seven months? Not a long time. People have been working on that one for 80 years, right? From the beginning. And 20 years with the nuclear — you know, if you just take the nuclear. But he is agreeing to work with me 100 percent on North Korea, and that’s a big thing, too. So you add the fentanyl along with — because what he will be doing to fentanyl could be a game changer for the United States and what fentanyl is doing to our country in terms of killing people. Because he’s agreed to put it at the highest level of crime in his country. Therefore, if they get caught, they have the highest level of punishment. That could be a game changer. That’s a big — to me, that’s a very big thing. Q What about a summit with Kim Jong Un? You talked about North Korea. When will the summit with Kim be? And did you talk about that with him? We’re going to do one fairly — you know, into January, February, I think. We’re getting along very well. We have a good relationship. Q Do you think you’ll have him come to the U.S.? At some point, yeah. Q Where will January or February be? Who? Q You said January or February. Where do you see — We have actually talked about three sites. We haven’t determined the sites. Q Regionally, can you tell us about that? Asia? Within plane distance. This is — this plane — Q His plane or — This sucker flies — by the way, what we’re doing with this plane is, Peter — Come on up here. So, what we’re doing — he was at the meeting and you thought it was pretty good? So what we’re doing with the plane — we land, and then they come in and these are great people that run these aircraft. They are unbelievable. And they’re taking apart — I don’t think this section. The section up front, they’re taking all of the seats out. They’re putting — and we’re taking — we’re sending the plane — this plane to Houston. And it picks up the casket — President Bush — which is good. Q Is there any chance we can get the NAFTA termination stuff on the record? Ready? I will be formally terminating NAFTA shortly. Just so you understand, when I do that, if for any reason we’re unable to make the deal, that’s — because Congress, then Congress will have a choice of approving the USMCA, which is a phenomenal deal. Much, much better than NAFTA. A great deal. So we’ll be terminating NAFTA in the not-too-distant future. We are delaying it. Q Can we say this is a six-month termination? Say that it’s a six-month term, and I’ll be — I’ll be terminating it within a relatively short period of time. We get rid of NAFTA. It’s been a disaster for the United States. It’s caused us tremendous amounts of unemployment and loss and company loss and everything else. That’ll be terminated. And so Congress will have a choice of the USMCA or pre-NAFTA, which worked very well. You got out, you negotiate your deals. It worked very well. Okay? Thank you. Well, let’s leave that. But we — if they come to me, which they already have, and they said, “You know, Mr. President…” Q Who is “they”? “They.” People that are in Congress. The folks. The folks that you know better than I even know them, okay. No, if they come — which they have — to talk about an extension because of President Bush’s passing, I would absolutely consider it and probably give it. Thank you everybody. END 11:30 P.M. AST
We had a great time in Nevada. It was really terrific. We had a very special couple of hours. I think we’re going to have a big success with Dean Heller and with Adam Laxalt. Really a good time. Any questions? Yeah? Q Mr. President, you said yesterday you were looking to talk to MBS. When do you plan on talking to him? Today? Soon. Very soon. Could be today. But I will be speaking to him. A lot of progress is being made. We’ll have an answer by probably Tuesday or so. Q Does that include sanctions? You’re looking — you’re going to propose sanctions? It may. And I’m going to work also with the Senate, with the House. We’ll be working with Congress, because, you know, they’re very involved, and I wanted to keep them involved, much as I did with Justice Kavanaugh. I wanted to keep them involved. I think it’s important. Q Mr. President, do you have any sense of where the body is? No, we don’t. Nobody seems to know. Somebody knows, but nobody of the various investigation groups at this moment know. But we’ll find out. Q Is that a concern that they haven’t identified that from Saudi? It’s a concern. We’d like to find out where it is and what happened. And I think we’re inching our way there. Q Has anyone in the U.S. government heard audio or seen video from the consulate? No, we haven’t. Mike Pompeo has not — Secretary of State. Somebody came out with a false report; I think it was ABC. It was totally false. He has not seen that, has not heard that. And I would tell you if he had. So far, we’ve heard about it, but nobody has seen it. Q Not even at the CIA or NSA? Not that we know of. Q Have you seen a transcript of it? Have the Turks turned over any — We have not gotten a transcript either. We’ve heard all about it. We’re hearing about it just like you’re hearing about it, probably from the same people. We have not seen it yet. Q Is it possible the Crown Prince didn’t know any of this? Possibly. You don’t know that, but it’s possible. We’ve had a tremendously positive development with Mexico. I just want to say, on behalf of the American public, that we appreciate what Mexico is doing. They’ve really stepped up, and it will not be forgotten. We just signed our new trade deal with Mexico and with Canada, the USMCA. And now I’m very happy that we signed it. I really appreciate — and they’ve had some people that were very badly injured. Six people at least. And we really appreciate what Mexico has done on the border. We appreciate it. First time this has ever happened. And hopefully it’s because they respect the leader of the United States. But they have never done that before. And I will tell you that I appreciate what Mexico has done. Q Mr. President, you said yesterday that it was a good first step what Saudi had said. Are you satisfied that some of them have been fired? No, I’m not satisfied until we find the answer. But it was a big first step. It was a good first step. But I want to get to the answer. With all of that being said though, we have $450 billion, $110 billion of which is a military order. But this is equipment and various things ordered from Saudi Arabia. $450 billion. I think it’s over a million jobs. That’s not helpful for us to cancel an order like that. That hurts us far more than it hurts them. So the military equipment, they go to China, they go to Russia, and they don’t have great equipment like we do — nobody does. But they can buy their equipment from other people. So that would hurt us far more than it would hurt them. But there are other things that can be done, including sanctions. Q Back on Mexico, have you ever considered completely sealing off the U.S. border with Mexico? So if it doesn’t work out on the border, what I want the Democrats to do — the beautiful thing of what’s happening is the Democrats are watching, on television, in this case, probably better than reading it — because you visually see what’s going on at the border. And all of the Democrats that have made it impossible — they’ve obstructed and they’ve resisted — they’ve made it impossible to do anything because the immigration laws are so bad. And I could sit down with Chuck Schumer and Nancy Pelosi, and in one hour I could have an agreement done that would solve all of the things that you’re watching that are so vicious and violent, where soldiers from Mexico are being injured, badly, by these — by people. And I could solve this in one hour with Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer. But they don’t want to, but I think now they do, because I think it’s a terrible political point for Democrats. Q consider completely sealing off the border, like having no one be allowed to ? I would call in military and I would seal off the border. I would close up the border. If that happens, and if that continues to move forward, the caravan we’re talking about — which is, I think, a manmade caravan, if you want to know the truth; I think some bad people started that caravan. More importantly, or maybe almost as importantly, you have some very, very bad people in the caravan. You have some very tough criminal elements within the caravan. But I will seal off the border before they come into this country, and I’ll bring out our military, not our Reserves. I’ll bring out our military. Q Any response to former Vice President Biden’s appearance? You mentioned him on stage. Did you watch his rally? He had some harsh words for you earlier today. No, look, Biden is a man that — number one, he can’t draw a crowd. He had almost no — you see what we have. And we had thousands of people that couldn’t get in today. Many thousands. No, look, I wish Biden the best. I hope he’s going to be the nominee, actually. I mean, “One Percent Joe.” I just hope they pick somebody good, somebody that’s going to represent their interests. If it’s Biden or Elizabeth Warren — I think she’s been very badly damaged by what happened over the last couple of days — or a man that ran Newark, New Jersey into the ground. There are a lot of people. But I don’t see it yet. But we’ll see what happens. We’ll see what happens. Anything else? Q What’s Ambassador Bolton’s message to the Russians going to be? Ambassador Bolton? Q The message to the Russians. Is he going to pull out of that — You got to talk louder. Q His message to the Russians. Is he going to pull out of the arms control treaty? Yeah, Russia has violated the agreement. They’ve been violating it for many years. And I don’t know why President Obama didn’t negotiate or pull out. And we’re not going to let them violate a nuclear agreement and go out and do weapons, and we’re not allowed to. We’re the ones that have stayed in the agreement, and we’ve honored the agreement. But Russia has not, unfortunately, honored the agreement. So we’re going to terminate the agreement and we’re going to pull out. Q That’s the INF? Yeah. The INF. Q Any update on your pick for U.N. Ambassador? No, we’ll have somebody great. Nikki is a friend of mine. She’s going to work on the campaign. But she’s been doing it for a long time, and we’re going to pick somebody very quickly. Q Would you prefer it to be a woman? Say it? Q Would you prefer it to be a woman? Yes. Q Why? I’m going to pick the best person. I think it would be good. I think she’s done an excellent job, a great job. And I would love to see — and I’ll tell you, I’m interviewing three women and two men. We have five people: three women and two men. I think I might prefer that, but we’ll see. Okay? Q You said you’re going to do more on taxes. Do you expect to do something more in the next couple months? And what should we expect to see? In what? With respect to what? Q With respect to tax legislation, the next piece? We are looking at putting in a very major tax cut for middle-income people. And if we do that, it’ll be sometime just prior, I would say, to November. A major tax cut. We are going to be putting in, and are studying very deeply right now, around the clock, a major tax cut for middle-income people. Not for business at all; for middle-income people. Now, the last was for middle income and for business, and our business is now coming back because of it. But we are looking at — Kevin Brady is working on it. Paul Ryan is working. We’re all working on it. And we’re looking at a major tax cut for middle-income people who need it. Q And what was your timeframe for that? I would say sometime around the 1st of November, maybe a little before that. Q Sorry, if I can follow up on the INF real quick. You intend to terminate the agreement. Does that mean that you plan on developing those weapons and deploying them once again? We’ll have to develop those weapons – unless Russia comes to us, and China comes to us, and they all come to us and they say, “Let’s really get smart and let’s none of us develop those weapons.” But if Russia is doing it and if China is doing it, and we’re adhering to the agreement, that’s unacceptable. So we have a tremendous amount of money to play with in our military — $700 billion plus $716 billion. So, Russia has not adhered to the agreement, so we are going to terminate the agreement and we are going to develop the weapons. If they get smart, and if others get smart and they say, “Let’s not develop these horrible nuclear weapons,” I would be extremely happy with that. But as long as somebody is violating that agreement, then we’re not going to be the only one to adhere to it. I think you understand that. Okay? We’ll see you on the plane. Thank you. END 1:04 P.M. PDT
So I met, number one, as you know, with Pastor Brunson. Some of you were there. And he had a fantastic weekend. He’s back home, and we love the fact that he’s back home. He’s with his family. And he’s a very happy man. He left Turkey. He is extremely thrilled. And, as I said, really yesterday more than ever, that we want to thank Turkey. We want to thank President Erdogan. I just spoke with the King of Saudi Arabia, who denies any knowledge of what took place with regard to, as he said, his Saudi Arabian citizen. I’ve asked — and he firmly denied that. I’ve asked Secretary of State Mike Pompeo to immediately get on a plane, to Saudi Arabia, go to other places if necessary, which he probably will. But with regards to this, go to Turkey if necessary. The King told me that Turkey and Saudi Arabia are working hand-in-hand, very closely, on getting to the bottom of what happened. So we’ll see what happens. But Mike Pompeo — Q Excuse me — Mike Pompeo is leaving literally within an hour or so. He’s heading to Saudi Arabia. We are going to leave nothing uncovered. With that being said, the King firmly denied any knowledge of it. He didn’t really know. Maybe — I don’t want to get into his mind — but it sounded to me like maybe these could have been rogue killers. Who knows? We’re going to try getting to the bottom of it very soon. But his was a flat denial. Q What? Q When he told you that, did you trust him and did you believe him? All I can do is report what he told me. And he told me in a very firm way that they had no knowledge of it. He said it very strongly. Q Will you relax sanctions against Turkey? Well, that was not part of the deal. We had no deal with Turkey. We don’t make deal — any deals for hostages or prisoners. But I will tell you that I feel much differently about Turkey today than I felt about them two days ago. I have a very good feeling toward Turkey. Two days ago, I did not. So that helped. Q Mr. President, who else could it be besides Saudi Arabia? I don’t know. We’re going to try to getting to the bottom of it. I can only tell you that his denial to me is — just one very, you know, relatively fast phone call. Probably lasted 20 minutes. His denial to me could not have been stronger that he had no knowledge. And it sounded like he, and also the Crown Prince, had no knowledge. Q What did you tell him about what the cost would be if it’s Saudi Arabia? We didn’t talk about that. We didn’t talk about that. I did say this is very important. The world is watching. The world is talking. And this is very important to get to the bottom of it. And I think he understands that very well. He did say, very strongly, that he’s dealing with Turkey; that they’ve come to an agreement, that they’re investigating it together. And I think that’s a good thing. Q Mr. President, what is your reaction to Senator Elizabeth Warren releasing the results of her DNA test? No, I have no — who cares? Q Mr. President, you said you — Who cares? Q Mr. President, you said you said you would donate $1 million to charity . I didn’t say that. You better read it again. Q Say it? Sorry, you have a helicopter roaring in the background. Go ahead. Q any theory of who may have done it if it wasn’t them? No, not a theory, but the denial was very, very strong. It wasn’t like there was a question and it’s . The denial was very, very strong. Q Do you think Elizabeth Warren will run for President? Do you see her ? I hope she’s running for President, because I think she’d be very easy. I hope that she is running. I do not think she’d be difficult at all. She’ll destroy the country. She’ll make our country into Venezuela. With that being said, I don’t want to say bad things about her, because I hope she would be one of the people that would get through the process. It’s going to be a long process for the Democrats. Q What is your reaction to Sears going bankrupt? It’s a shame. So Sears, Roebuck, when I was growing up, was the big deal. And it’s very sad what happened. Very, very sad. When you look at that whole filing that they did last night, to me it’s very sad. Somebody that is of my generation — Sears, Roebuck was a big deal, so it’s very sad to see. And I will say, with that being said, I would imagine some of those great sites that Sears has — they really have some great sites — will be put to good use. It will be a lot of jobs. Sears has been dying for many years. It’s been obviously improperly run for many years, and it’s a shame. Q Why take the arms deal off the table with Saudi Arabia? I’m not taking anything off the table. No, we’re going to try and find out. I’m just explaining — — Q No, no look — I’m just explaining, very easily, I think, what was told to me a half an hour ago. And the denial was not only a denial, it was a very firm denial. So we will check it all out. We’ll get to the bottom of it, okay? Q North Korea? No, North Korea is coming along very well. Relationships are very good. I think a lot of good things will happen. It’s complicated. You know, we’ve done things in three or four months that nobody has done in 70 years. But I think North Korea is coming along very well. Thank you. I’ll see you in Florida. Thank you. END 9:35 A.M. EDT
Well, we have good news: Pastor Andrew Brunson is in the air from Turkey. He’s, I think, in good shape. He’ll be stopping, most likely in Germany, for a full checkup. And then he’s going to be coming to the Oval Office, most likely on Saturday. But we’re very honored to have him back with us. He suffered greatly, but we’re very appreciative to a lot of people — a lot of people. So Pastor Brunson is in the air heading to Germany and then coming to the U.S. He’ll be landing on Saturday — most likely Saturday, in D.C. Q What caused the release, Mr. President? Well, we spoke to Turkey, and he went through a system and we got him out. We’ve been trying to get him out for a long time. Q Will you lift the sanctions now on Turkey? This has nothing to do with anything — there was no deal made at all. There was no deal. But we’re very happy to have him, and have him in good shape. I hear he’s in very good shape. Q Mr. President, are you reevaluating the relationship with Saudi Arabia? Well, we’re going to find out what happened with respect to the terrible situation in Turkey, having to do Saudi Arabia and the reporter. And nobody knows quite yet. Nobody has been able to put it all together. People are starting to form ideas. And as they’re formed, we’ll let you know. But it certainly is a terrible thing. Q Has their record been overlooked for too long? Excuse me? Q Has their record otherwise been overlooked for too long? Well, I think a lot of records are overlooked. If you look at Iran, if you look at so many other countries; take a look at Syria. You take a look at a lot of countries — a lot of countries’ records have been overlooked. But this is a very serious thing and we’re looking at it in a very serious manner. Okay? And we’ll see you. We have a big crowd. Q Have you spoken to the King of Saudi Arabia about this? I have not. I have not called him. Q But do you plan to soon, sir? I will. I will be calling him. I will be calling at some point, King Salman. You know, you’re right in the — you’re right in the way of that camera behind you. I’m sure they think you’re a very good-looking guy, but maybe not that good from the back, right? All right. So, go ahead. Q So you plan to call him soon? Can you tell us when that — I’ll be speaking to him. Yes, pretty soon. Q What will that conversation be like? Well, I can’t tell you. But I will say that they’re looking very hard and fast. And not only us; a lot of people are looking to find out. Because it is potentially a really, really terrible situation. So we’ll see what happens. Q Was it a mistake for Jared to develop such a close relationship with — Yes? Q Was it a mistake for Jared to develop such a close relationship with the Crown Prince? No, I don’t know if it’s any closer than other relationships that people have. We have a lot of very close relationships with a lot of countries. But this is a serious problem. Thank you. Q Was it right for the Treasury Secretary to go to their investment conference? Well, I guess a lot of people are going over to an investment conference. And he actually called this morning and he will make that determination. But he was partially over there anyway. A lot of people are going over to the investment conference. We’ll see what happens. Maybe some won’t be going. We’ll make that determination very soon. Okay? We’ll see you over at the rally. END 4:50 P.M. EDT
So we’re heading out to Iowa, where we have a big statement to make, as you know, on ethanol and for our farmers. Likewise, we’re taking care of our refineries and our refiners, and they’ve done a fantastic job. But we want to get more fuel into the system, and this is a great thing. But they’re great for our farmers, and it was a promise that I made during the campaign. And, as you know, I keep my promises. So that’s the way it is. So we’re heading out to Iowa. I assume some of you are coming. Yes, please. Q Mr. President, in terms of who may succeed Nikki Haley at the United Nations, the name “Dina Powell” is out there. That would be a trade — one strong woman from another. What are the chances of that happening? It’s certainly a person I would consider. And she is under consideration. We have, actually, many names. And, you know, Nikki has been great. Nikki is going to be working along with us and helping us with the choice. Plus, she’s going to help us with 2020. And Nikki is a great friend of mine. We’ve become real friends over the last period of time. But she’s done a fantastic job. And so she’ll be involved. And Dina, certainly. And there are others. I’ve heard a lot of names. Q What about Ivanka? I’ve heard Ivanka. I’ve heard — how good would Ivanka be? Q Would you consider her? The people that know — it’s nothing to do with nepotism. But I want tell you: The people that know, know that Ivanka would be dynamite. But, you know, I’d then be accused of nepotism, if you can believe it. Right? Yes. Q Is it a serious consideration though? Would she be a good fit for that job? I think Ivanka would be incredible. That doesn’t mean I’d — you know, I’d pick her, because you’d be accused of nepotism, even though I’m not sure there’s anybody more competent in the world. But that’s okay. But we are looking at numerous people. And it is interesting, the name you just mentioned. Q What’s the real reason for Ambassador Haley’s resignation? There’s a lot of speculation about the timing, on a day when you should be celebrating the Kavanaugh nomination. We do a lot. You know, this administration does a lot. So, you’re right, another administration would — after like the Kavanaugh victory — it’s really a victory for the people; it’s not for me. It’s a victory — they’ll have a great Justice for hopefully many years. But a lot of people would celebrate; we go back to business the next day. And, you know, Nikki and I talked about this a year ago. And we ought to — she really wanted to be here for about two years. We finished our big week last week at the U.N. We had a tremendous success. It was great. And we finished 30 days out. But, you know, Nikki is going to be involved with us for a long time. And she’s going to help me also make that final pick. We’re going to make a final pick. I want to get somebody really good. I think she’s also brought a new level of prestige to that position. That position is — in terms of people wanting it — easier now, in a way, than it was before. Nikki has brought, obviously, great competence, but she’s brought great prestige to that position. Q How do you keep your base energized now that you have this Kavanaugh victory? Well, that’s a very good question. “How do you keep your base energized now that you have the big Kavanaugh victory?” I would say that just by winning. Got to keep winning. We’re doing a lot of winning. We’re very happy with the USMCA, which is the — I don’t want to use the word “NAFTA” because it’s a terrible word, because it was a horrible deal for this country. But our deal with Mexico and Canada was fantastic. China wants to make a deal so badly. We’ll see where it goes. But I don’t think they’re ready yet, personally. Q Do you think the Democrats, on the other hand, will be energized because they saw the defeat of someone that they wanted ? Yeah, probably. I mean, there could be. But, you know, a lot of those were paid protestors. You saw that. They were all unhappy because they haven’t been paid yet. I’ve been calling it. They were paid protestors. That was professional. That was orchestrated, when you look in the halls of Congress, and you see screaming like that. And it’s like chimes — one goes; the next goes. These are paid protestors. I don’t know that their energy is great. I can tell you, the energy on the Republican side, I don’t think it’s ever been greater — maybe 2016, where, as you remember, the energy was very good. My man. Q Mr. President — Say hello to your father. Q I will. You’ve already got two Supreme Court Justices through in your first term. How many more do you think you might get this term? A lot of theories on that. It could be three. Under one theory, it could be four. And then some people could say two could happen. So, you know, it could anywhere be from, I would say, one or two, to four additional. So we’ll see. You know what? I hope everyone remains healthy. I’m very happy the way it is right now. And we put a great man, and I think going to be a great Justice on the court. But, you know, it’s a guessing game. You don’t know. What is an honor is that there have been Presidents — many Presidents that never had a choice. And here I am, not even two years, and we have two. And they’re confirmed and . Q You’re meeting with Kanye West on — you’re meeting with Kanye West on Thursday, Mr. President. When will you talk — Yeah, I believe Kanye West is coming to the White House. He’s been a terrific guy. You know, he loves what we’re doing for African American jobs, for so many different things. Median income, as you see, at an all-time high. Poverty level at the best rate — meaning the lowest rate so far. And Kanye is a smart guy. And he sees that. And also coming with him — he said, “Do you mind if I bring Jim Brown?” Big Jim Brown. Boy, would he be making a lot of money today, right? He was un — I call him “Unstoppable Jim Brown.” And he’s been a friend of mine. He’s been really with us. Because he gets it. He really gets it. He sees that African American — and, by the way, Hispanic and Asian — have never done better in this country. And he likes it. Q Were you concerned about the way that China treated Secretary Pompeo when he was there on this most recent visit? No. They’re just trying to get me a message. But those messages don’t work. They don’t work. But no, I think they treated him with great respect, actually. You know, they had meetings besides just the news conference. And I think they treated him with great respect. He had a great meeting with North Korea. And China, it’s — it wasn’t so much — I guess he was giving them a message, and they were giving him a message to come back to me. Q Do you have any updates about the Saudi journalist? Have you heard anything recently? I don’t know anything. No, I don’t have any updates. No. It’s a sad situation. Q Have you read the U.N. report this week warning about climate change, requiring drastic action — It was given to me. It was given to me. And I want to look at who drew it. You know, which group drew it. Because I can give you reports that are fabulous, and I can give you reports that aren’t so good. But I will be looking at it. Absolutely. Q What do you think about Hope Hick’s new job at Fox? I think it’s fantastic. Hope? Q Yeah. She’s the greatest. I love it. I think Hope is — I’m so proud of her. And I’m very happy. I’m very happy for you, right? Was that announced officially now? Q Yes. I’m very happy for Fox because they have a winner. Hope is a winner. And she has been from the beginning. You know, she was like literally right from first day. That was a small group. And — no, I’m very proud of Hope. And Fox has themselves somebody who’s really great. Q On ethanol — the petroleum industry opposes this idea of moving to 15 percent ethanol year-round. They say it’s going to hurt their industry. What do you say to them? Well, I want more industry. I want more energy. I want more, because I don’t like $74. It’s up to $74. And if I have to do more, whether it’s through ethanol or through another means, that’s what I want. I want low prices. So I’m okay with it. You know, it’s an amazing substance. You look at the Indy cars — they run 100 percent on ethanol. And you look at other certain forms of very modern energy, it’s ethanol-based, and that meant a lot to me. But what it really means is we’re helping our farmers and we’re also going to be helping our refiners, and you know that too — because they’re both very important. But the farmers have been so terrific, and they produce great product. So I think it’s going to be great. And it has no impact — 12 months. That was a misnomer. There is no negative impact. In fact, there are those that say, you do this and the air is cleaner. I agree with that. But they say, you go 12 months instead of 8 — you go 12 months, and the air is actually cleaner. Q Just yesterday, CREW filed an ethics complaint against Nikki Haley, saying that she misused — Who did? Q CREW — Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics. They fired an ethics complaint, saying that Nikki Haley misused private planes. Did that factor in at all into the timing of the announcement? No, I know nothing about it. I know nothing about it. I know Nikki. This is one of the most honest human beings you’ll ever see. So I just — I haven’t heard about it. Q Would you like to see Nikki Haley be the next U.S. Senator from South Carolina, sir? Say it? Q Would you like to see Nikki Haley be the next U.S. Senator from South Carolina? Well, that all depends on who she’s going to be running against. I mean, I could tell you, you have some few really good ones right there, right now. So I don’t see her doing that, no. Q Does Lindsey Graham have a place in your administration after the midterms? Well, Lindsey is a terrific guy. I think he wants to stay right where he is. Certainly, I would. But I think he’s really happy. I’ll tell you what: Lindsey really stepped up over the last two or three weeks. I thought it was fantastic. So, Lindsey is a popular guy, and Tim is a popular guy. I think those are two people — and Nikki doesn’t have that in mind at all. Q Is Senator Graham popular enough to be your next Attorney General, sir? He is somebody that never asked me that question. I think he’s very happy where he is. He’s having a good time. And he really stepped it up. He’s doing great. Q Mr. President, do you believe Nikki Haley when she says she doesn’t want to run for President in 2020? Oh, yeah, a hundred percent. Q You guys used to clash with one another. That’s right. But we’ve — I didn’t know her. I mean, she supported somebody over me in the primary. It turned out very well for me. She respected it. And after that, we got along, as you would say, very well. She helped me in the election — you know, once I won the primaries. And we’ve really been friends and we’ve been compatriots. We’ve been — we’ve done a great job together. You know, the United Nations is at, I think, really a new level of respect. And we work together. We had a tremendous week last week. So, no, Nikki wants to work with us and also to keep it going. She wants to work — I guess she said today, a few times, she wants to work on the 2020 Election with us. Q Mr. President, what about your comments yesterday that some of these forces against Brett Kavanaugh were, quote, “evil”? Yeah, I think they were. I think they were. Yeah. Q Who do you — when you say “evil” you mean evil? Yeah, I’m not going to say who I mean. I’m just telling you, you had forces saying things that were evil. They were bad people. And he is a very, very fine man. And what was said about him should never have been said. Q fellow Americans? I know many. I know fellow Americans that are evil. I know — are you saying we shouldn’t say that a fellow American is “evil”? I’ve known some fellow Americans that are pretty evil. Q Well, I like to see low interest rates. The Fed is doing what they think is necessary, but I don’t like what they’re doing. Because we have inflation really checked, and we have a lot of good things happening. So, I will say this: We’re normalizing money, and that’s good, but I think we don’t have to go as fast. I want to be able to pay off debt. Also, and very importantly, I think that the numbers that we’re producing are record setting. I don’t want to slow it down even a little bit, especially when you don’t have the problem of inflation. And you don’t see that inflation going back. Now, at some point it will, and you go up. I just don’t think it’s necessary to go as fast. Q Have you talked to Jay Powell about that? Have you told him what you think? I have not spoken to him about that. Q Have you met with him this year? No, I like to stay uninvolved with them. I have not spoken. How are you? Q Mr. President, again — hi, good, how are you? Have you considered Jared Kushner, your son-in-law, for U.N. Ambassador? Well, he’s very talented, but no, I haven’t. Q Okay. And the second question — Only because I know you people. What would you do if I said that, right? What would they do? Q But Ivanka is in the running? Jared or — how do you feel about Ivanka? Q Great. I think CNN would support her. Q What about the difference between Kushner and Ivanka? Well, look, they’re two very competent people. Q And on Rosenstein, he Congress. Is he a — Well, I guess he’s going before Congress. We had a very good talk yesterday. And he’s going before Congress. We’ll see how it all works out. In the meantime, as you know, Senator Richard Burr came out just recently and said there was no collusion. He saw no collusion. This is after what? A year and a half. And Devin Nunes, as you know, a very — smart people. He came out. There’s no collusion. There is no collusion. So that’s all I care about. Q Mr. President, with the nomination of Kavanaugh now behind us, how do you recommend we address the divide in the American political climate? We’ll start getting together. We’ll start getting together. Thank you, everybody. Thank you. END 3:53 P.M. EDT
Okay, well, thank you very much everyone. Before we begin, I’ll just say that we’re very well prepared for the incoming hurricane. We have another coming. So we’ve done very well — North Carolina, South Carolina, Texas, Florida, Puerto Rico –so many places. And we have another one coming, and a big one — much bigger than they anticipated a week ago, seven days ago. I heard, for the first time, there was a very small drop of weather that looked like it was forming. And now, it’s pretty close to a Category 3, if it’s not already a Category 3. So we are very well prepared. FEMA is ready. We’re all ready. I spoke with Governor Scott, spoke to everybody that you have to speak to. And I think that hopefully we’ll get lucky, but maybe that won’t happen. But we’re prepared. I wanted to do this because Nikki Haley, Ambassador to the United Nations, has been very special to me. She’s done an incredible job. She’s a fantastic person, very importantly — but she also is somebody that gets it. She has been at the United Nations from the beginning with us — right from the beginning — and worked with us on the campaign. It’s been really a long time — very intense. And she told me — probably six months ago, she said, “You know, maybe at the end of the year — at the end of a two-year period, but the end of the year — I want to take a little time off. I want to take a little break.” She’s been a very successful, as you know, governor of South Carolina for eight years. And then she did this, and this is possibly even more intense — — with what’s going on in the world, and very dangerous, and a lot of things. But she’s done a fantastic job, and we’ve done a fantastic job together. We’ve solved a lot of problems, and we’re in the process of solving a lot of problems. At the beginning, North Korea was a massive problem, and now we’re moving along. It’s moving along really nicely. I can speak for Secretary of State Mike Pompeo — he thinks the world of Nikki. And so we’re all — we’re all happy for you, in one way, but we hate to — you’ll — hopefully, you’ll be coming back at some point. But you want to just — in maybe a different capacity. You can have your pick. But I just wanted to let you know — so at the end of the year, Nikki will be leaving. And we’ll be in constant touch, I know that. Whenever you have any ideas, you’re going to call me — — because you know all the players. And that was really the thing I think she did best at the United Nations; she got to know the players. She got to know China, Russia, India. She knows everybody on a very first-name basis. And they like her — except for maybe a couple, which is normal, right? They can’t all like you. But they do; they really like her. And I think, maybe more importantly, they respect her. So, Nikki, I just wanted to tell you that we will miss you. We’ll be speaking all the time, but we will miss you nevertheless. And you have done a fantastic job. And I want to thank you very much. Thank you, Nikki. I’m so proud of you. That’s so good. Thank you, Nikki. Q Ambassador Haley, you list a long list of accomplishments. Why would you want to leave that all behind? Is it really a personal decision because you’ve been away from your family for so long? Or is it something else, too? Well, Nikki’s going to be staying until of the — until the end of the year, which will be just about two years. And I just think — and I was just — as Nikki was speaking, I was thinking, when we came into office, it was almost inevitable in the minds of many that we were going to war with North Korea. If you ask President Obama, I’m sure he’ll tell you that that was by far his biggest problem when we sat in that — right here. But that looked like a real problem. Iran looked like a real problem. It was a question of when would they take over the Middle East, prior to my coming here. And now, Iran is fighting for their lives. They’ve got riots in all their cities. It’s blowing up. Their inflation, their economy is in tatters. And at some point, they’ll probably come and want to make a real deal, not the deal that they made — the ridiculous deal that they made that was unacceptable to me. And so we’ll see what happens. But what a difference between Iran, when we first came — I’d like to say the day before we came. And also, if you look at North Korea. I mean, there was a deal that — it was something that was — it was a devastating — potentially devastating problem. And now, the relationships are very good. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo just left. Had a great meeting — also was in China. Also spoke to many of the Asian leaders, or went there and had some good meetings. But had a really very good meeting with North Korea and Chairman Kim. And we’ve just made a lot of progress on so many other fronts, also. And I think the world — as Nikki said, the world is really respecting the United States again, much more so they have — than they have in many, many decades. We are respected again, that I can tell you. Very much respected again. And people want to be on our side. Even if you look at the votes in the United Nations. I mean, votes that we would normally get no votes, we’re getting very strong votes now. So, I just want to thank Nikki. And I thought this would be an appropriate way of doing it. Because when you write it out on a piece of paper that, you know, “Ambassador Haley will be leaving,” and you say nice things, people say, “Well, what’s going on?” This is the right way to do it. And when you really think somebody’s done a terrific job, I felt this was an appropriate way of doing it, and we both liked it. So I just want to thank the Ambassador. I just want to thank Nikki, okay? Q Mr. President, who are you thinking about for successor? Well, we have a number of people that would very much like to do it. It’s a great position. And Nikki realizes it. She’s — I think she’s helped make it a much better position, if you want to know the truth. I think it’s become maybe a more glamorous position than it was two years ago. Maybe — I wonder why, but it is. It is — I mean, she’s made it a very glamorous position. She’s made it a more important — more importantly, a more important position. So we have a — I can almost say many people that want to do it, and they’re very good people. And I’ll be talking also to Nikki about that, and to the General about that, and to my staff. But we have many people that are very, very much interested in doing it. Q You said you just saw Secretary Pompeo. Were you frustrated by the lack of actual announcements that are coming from him? No, not only am I not frustrated, I think it’s incredible what’s happening. You’re talking about North Korea? It’s amazing the way the media — who are you with? Q With France 24. Who? Q France 24. So, it’s amazing the way the media says that. You know, for 80 years, they couldn’t do a thing. And I’m — what are we, in three months of negotiation? It’s ridiculous. As I’ve said about a thousand times, you’ve got no rockets flying. You have no missiles flying. You have no nuclear testing. You have nuclear closings. They’re closing up different areas of North Korea. We’re getting the remains back — it’s already started — of our great heroes. We’re — we got our hostages back. And I didn’t pay $1.8 billion, like the previous administration. We got — I paid nothing. But I have agreed to meet. And I have agreed to spend time. But, how long has it been since we left Singapore? It was three months or so? And people say — that’s the media saying, like, “How can we be negative? Let’s see, he’s done really well. How can we be negative? Oh, are you disappointed with the speed?” I think the speed is amazing. You have no nuclear tests. You have no rockets. And we have a very good relationship with Chairman Kim, which is very important. I like him; he likes me. The relationship is good. Mike Pompeo had a very, very good meeting. I mean, I spoke to him at length yesterday, and he’ll be coming back. He’ll be back tonight. And so, I mean just the opposite. I think we’ve made incredible progress. Beyond incredible. Beyond — I don’t think the — some of the press — some of the press really covers it accurately and right. But some of the press really doesn’t. Yes, John? Q Do you want to take this opportunity to tell us when your next meeting with Kim will be and where it will be? Well, it is happening. And we’re setting that up right now. That was part of the reason that Mike was going over to meet; they’re setting up the meeting. And we’ll be announcing that — probably a different location. Singapore was fantastic, but we’ll probably do a different location. Q Can you get him to Mar-a-Lago? He’d probably like that. I’d like that, too. I think it would be good. But we’ll see. We’re talking about three or four different locations. Timing — won’t be too far away. Q Any of those locations — We’ve made a lot of progress. And this meeting really is to — you know, people don’t realize the importance of the first meeting. I mean, we said, “Point number one: denuclearization.” And for some reason the press doesn’t pick that out. But that was actually point number one; they’ve agreed to denuclearization. And they continue to agree, and they continue. Now we haven’t removed sanctions, as you know. You know, people said, “What have we done?” We haven’t removed sanctions. We have very big sanctions. I’d love to remove them, but we have to get something for doing that. Q Any chance the meeting could be on U.S. soil? Well, you know, I don’t want to embarrass anybody by asking. I think eventually we’re going to have lots of meetings on U.S. soil and on their soil, by the way. That’s a two-way street — on their soil, also. I think that the country of North Korea is going to be a very successful country. I think it’s going to be incredibly economically successful. And I want to make it that way. I think it’s going to be great. Other countries, other people, entrepreneurs, banks — I will tell you, they’re calling wanting to go there and wanting to invest. At some point when Chairman Kim makes that decision, I think he’s going to unleash something that’s going to be spectacular — really spectacular. And I think he knows it. And I think that’s one of the reasons that we’re having very successful conversations. I think he wants to get on with it. Q When will a successor to Ambassador Haley be named? Excuse me? Q When will a successor to Ambassador Haley be named? When? What did he say? Q When will a successor be named? Oh. I would say we’ll name a successor, I don’t know, within the next two or three weeks. Maybe sooner. Q Mr. President, have you spoken to the Saudis about the missing Washington Post columnist? I have not. No, I have not. But I will be, at some point. Q What do you know at this point? I know nothing right now. I know what everybody else knows — nothing. Q What’s your response to Hillary Clinton saying last night’s swearing-in of Judge Kavanaugh was more a political event than it was a national event? I guess that’s why she lost. She doesn’t get it. She never did. I knew that a long time ago. Hillary never got it. That’s why she lost. Anything else? Q Sir, the midterms are in four weeks. What’s your prediction right now for the GOP? And how is your stamina out on the campaign trail? I think we’re going to do well. Well, you people would say — I guess, if you saw there was a 5 percent drop-off, you’d say, “There’s something wrong with the President.” You would say. But no, I’m going to Iowa tonight. We have a big, big crowd. We’re going to make a big announcement tonight by the way in Iowa. We’re going to be making a very big announcement. And I have to say, the farmers are so thrilled with the USMCA — the new agreement. I don’t use the word “NAFTA” because NAFTA was a disaster for our country. NAFTA — we lost millions and millions of jobs; thousands and thousands of factories and plants; and bad for farmers. You look at what happened. Farmers, over the last fifteen years — it’s only gone down. Now, they’re going to go up. We just opened up Mexico. We just opened up Canada. And it’s great for our farmers. But I’m going to Iowa tonight. And we’ll be talking a little ethanol tonight. And we’ve got some great things planned. And speaking of that, I will say: If you look at industries, the steel industry in this country is back like nothing I’ve ever seen before. In a period of six months, since we started doing what I’m doing, the steel industry has literally revived. U.S. Steel is opening up eight plants. Nucor is opening up. Everybody is. The steel industry in our country is really, really hot. So it’s been — it’s really been great. But I’ll be going to Iowa tonight. Q What about Secretary Pompeo’s meeting in China? How did that go? The words — Very well. Q — seemed really sharp. No, it went very well. We have a very good relationship with China. But, you know, they took out $500 billion out of our country for many years, each year. And we just can’t let that happen. This should’ve been talked about by people in this chair for many years. Look, for years and years, they were taking out $200 , $300 , $400 , and even $500 billion dollars a year. We helped rebuild China. If we don’t do that, China’s not where they are right now. And that’s fine with me, but we’re not doing it any longer. Q You promised more tariffs on China if they retaliated. Oh sure. Absolutely. Q Are you going to go forward with that two hundred — One hundred percent. If they do that — if they retaliate. Q Well, they already have. What does retaliate mean? They’ve already retaliated. They’ve taken out $500 billion dollars. That’s — I think that’s the ultimate retaliation. No, look, China wants to make a deal. And I say they’re not ready yet. I just say they’re not ready yet. And we’ve cancelled a couple of meetings because I just say they’re not ready to make a deal. We can’t have a one-way street. It’s got to be a two-way street. It’s been a one-way street for 25 years. We’ve got to make it a two-way street. We’ve got to benefit also, okay? Thank you. Any other questions? So, I just want to finish because this is really — the pure reason for this is — Nikki, you’ve been fantastic. You’re my friend. And I just — on behalf of the country, I want to thank you for a great job. Thank you, Nikki. Thank you. Thank you very much everybody. END 10:55 A.M. EDT
If I had time, I would. I mean, to be honest with you, he has to straighten it out. He’s got to be — he’s got to act a lot more humanely. The people are suffering tremendously in Venezuela. There’s no reason for this. So I would certainly be open to it. I’m willing to meet with anybody. Anytime I can save lives and help people — if it’s one life, I’m certainly willing to meet. Q Mr. President, he has said that it’s very important for them to be able to work with the United States, but they don’t want to — Who? Q Venezuela has said. But they said also that they don’t want to declare it a humanitarian crisis because they believe that will lead to an intervention, and they have included examples like Chile and other countries. What’s your response to that? Because you have said — I just want to see Venezuela straightened out. I want the people to be safe. We’re going to take care of Venezuela. Okay? We’re going to take care of Venezuela. What’s happening in Venezuela is a disgrace. If he’s here, if he wants to meet — I don’t know. It was not on my mind. It is not on my plate. But if I can help people, that’s what I’m here for. Q Are you going to ask — are you going to ask to protect your allies in the region after Maduro sent troops to the border in Colombia? Our allies are in no trouble. We’re with our allies. Our allies — we are with our allies 100 percent. They have no problem. We met yesterday with Colombia. We had a great meeting with Colombia. And we’ve met with numerous others of our allies and they are absolutely in no trouble. Q are you going to meet Mr. Putin? I don’t know. I look forward to meeting him again. But I — we don’t have anything set, but I look forward to meeting him again. Q Mr. President, on North Korea — Say it. Q On North Korea, what needs to happen? What does North Korea need to do — A lot of good things are happening. Q No — what needs to happen — on North Korea, what needs to happen on North Korea? What does North Korea need to do before you will meet Chairman Kim again? We are denuclearizing North Korea. We have a wonderful relationship going between our country and them. We’re being helped a lot by Japan, and very much by President Moon of South Korea. And North Korea — it’s going along very well. We really have had a tremendous amount of progress since this time last year. Q Every option is still on the table against Nicolás Maduro? Every option is still on the table? Even — All options are on the table. Every one. Strong ones and the less-than-strong ones. Every option — and you know what I mean by “strong.” Every option is on the table, with respect to Venezuela. We’re going to take care of the people of Venezuela. We have many Venezuelans living in the United States. Many of them live in the Doral area of Miami. I’ve gotten to know them very well. These are great, great people. We’re going to take care of those people. Okay? Q Secretary Pompeo said today that North Korea might be okaying the inspectors to check their nukes. Can you tell us a little bit more about that? Because that will be . Chairman Kim wants good things to happen for North Korea. And good things are happening with respect to North Korea. And it’s going to be great for Chairman Kim and great for the people of North Korea. And that’s what we’re all about. Q What are you going to discuss with the Japanese Prime Minister Abe today? A very good relationship with — as you know, with Prime Minister Abe. He was in my apartment just the other day in Trump Tower. We had a very long, couple-of-hour discussion. He loves his country. He had a tremendous victory in the election, as you know, which I was very happy about. I don’t know if you’re supposed to endorse somebody or not, but I endorsed him and I will endorse him again. He’s a great gentleman and a great man, and a person who is a great leader for Japan. We have other things to discuss. I think more than anything else, we’ll be discussing trade. Q Mr. President, where will you meet Chairman Kim in the future? I’ll be meeting with Chairman Kim in the very near future. It will be announced. We’ll announce it. In fact, we’re having a press conference today. We’ll start talking about that. But we’ll be announcing where and when in the very near future. Q Thank you. Mr. President, you said yesterday that the First Lady will travel to Africa. Yes. Q Which part of Africa? Has she considered going to Angola? They’re going to announce it in about an hour. You should be there. She’s got a press conference in one hour. You should be there. They’re announcing she’s going to four countries in Africa. Q It’s not Angola? They’ll be announcing it in about an hour, exactly. She’s going to be making the announcement, which is much more exciting when — than when I make an announcement. So she’ll be announcing she’s making a big trip to Africa. We both love Africa. Africa is so beautiful. The most beautiful part of the world, in many ways. Q It is. Angola is — Just let me — let me just say that she’s having a news conference in a very short period of time. She’ll be announcing exactly where she’s going, and I hope you’re going to be there. Q It’s not Angola? Not Angola? You’ll see in about an hour. Q What is your thoughts on the woman questioning Kavanaugh’s accuser tomorrow? Well, I think the Senate — the Republicans could not be nicer than the way they’re handling this. They could have pushed it through two and a half weeks ago, and you wouldn’t be talking about it right now — which is, frankly, what I would have preferred. But they didn’t do that. The Republicans could not be nicer, could not be more respectful to the process, certainly could not be more respectful to the woman, and I’m okay with that. I think I might have pushed it forward a lot faster. But I’ll tell you what, I know — I know this particular man — Judge Kavanaugh. He’s outstanding. You don’t find people like this. He’s outstanding. He’s a gem. He’s an absolute gem. And he’s been treated very unfairly by the Democrats who are playing a con game. They know what they’re doing. It’s a con. They go into a backroom, and they talk with each other and they laugh at what they’re getting away with. It’s a con game, and that’s what they play. And that’s about the only thing they do well. Thank you very much. END
Thank you very much. The 8,362nd meeting of the Security Council is called to order. The agenda for this meeting is: “Maintenance of International Peace and Security: Non-proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction.” The agenda is hereby adopted. I am honoured to be here today to chair this meeting of the United Nations Security Council. It is also my privilege to welcome the distinguished Heads of State, Heads of Government, Ministers, and other leaders and representatives here with us. Thank you. I also wish to warmly welcome Secretary General António Guterres for joining us. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary General. The Security Council will now consider Item Two of the agenda. I will make a statement in my capacity as the President of the United States of America: It is a great honor to be here today at this U.N. Security Council briefing to discuss a matter of urgent importance concerning and countering the proliferation of deadly chemical, biological, and nuclear weapons and the means to deliver them. The nations of the world have long recognized that certain weapons are so dangerous, and can inflict so much suffering, that all of us have a vital interest in preventing their further development, spread, and use. Since my inauguration, the United States has taken bold action to confront these sinister threats. Many of us are rightly focused on the dangers of nuclear weapons, but we must never forget the risk posed by biological and chemical weapons. The United States was one of the first nations to unilaterally renounce the use of biological weapons, and since World War I, we have led international efforts against the scourge of chemical warfare. Most recently, in Syria, we have twice imposed severe consequences on the Assad regime for using chemical weapons against innocent civilians. I want to thank Prime Minister May and President Macron for their countries’ close partnership in those efforts last April. The Syrian regime’s butchery is enabled by Russia and Iran. The Iranian regime exports violence, terror, and turmoil. It illicitly procures sensitive items to advance its ballistic missile program and proliferates these missiles all across the Middle East. The regime is the world’s leading sponsor of terror and fuels conflict across the region and far beyond. A regime with this track record must never be allowed to possess a nuclear weapon. For this reason, I announced earlier this year that the United States would withdraw from the Iran nuclear deal. This horrible, one-sided deal allowed Iran to continue its path towards a bomb and gave the regime a cash lifeline when they needed it the most. They were in big, big trouble. They needed cash. We gave it to them. In the years since the deal was signed, Iran’s aggression only increased. The regime used new funds from the deal to support terrorism, build nuclear-capable missiles, and foment chaos. Following America’s withdrawal, the United States began re-imposing nuclear-related sanctions on Iran. All U.S. nuclear-related sanctions will be in full force by early November. They will be in full force. After that, the United States will pursue additional sanctions, tougher than ever before, to counter the entire range of Iran’s malign conduct. Any individual or entity who fails to comply with these sanctions will face severe consequences. I ask all members of the Security Council to work with the United States to ensure the Iranian regime changes its behavior and never acquires a nuclear bomb. With all of this said, I want to thank Iran, Russia, and Syria for — at my very strong urging and request — substantially slowing down their attack on Idlib Province and the 3 million people who live there in order to get 35,000 targeted terrorists. Get the terrorists, but I hope the restraint continues. The world is watching. Thank you also to Turkey for helping to negotiate restraint. Anything the USA can do to help resolve this problem in order to save perhaps even hundreds of thousands of lives, maybe more, we are willing and able. We are available to help. In my remarks yesterday to the United Nations General Assembly, I laid out my administration’s commitment to building a more just and peaceful future. Regrettably, we found that China has been attempting to interfere in our upcoming 2018 election coming up in November against my administration. They do not want me, or us, to win because I am the first President ever to challenge China on trade. And we are winning on trade. We are winning at every level. We don’t want them to meddle or interfere in our upcoming election. As I also mentioned yesterday, we have seen the results of historic efforts to open new pathways to peace on the North Korean Peninsula — on the Korean Peninsula. And that’s something we are extremely proud of. I am pleased to say that North Korea has not conducted a missile test since last November. It has not conducted a nuclear test since last September. And the hostages have been returned to us. And very importantly, the remains of American heroes are now returning home. In June, I held a historic summit with Chairman Kim Jong Un in Singapore, where he reaffirmed his commitment to complete denuclearization. Last week, Chairman Kim reiterated that commitment to President Moon at their third summit, and to me in a very strong letter form. I think we will make a deal. But unfortunately, to ensure this progress continues, we must enforce existing U.N. Security Council resolutions until denuclearization occurs. However, we have detected that some nations are already violating these U.N. sanctions. This includes illegal ship-to-ship transfers, which must end immediately. The safety of the Korean Peninsula, the region, and the world, depends on full compliance with U.N. Security Council resolutions. Very, very important. But most importantly, I believe that Chairman Kim Jong Un, a man I have gotten to know and like, wants peace and prosperity for North Korea. Many things are happening behind the scenes — away from the media, which nobody knows — but they are happening nevertheless and they are happening in a very positive way. So I think you will have some very good news coming from North Korea in the coming months and years. I also very much appreciate what President Moon of South Korea had to say about me last night in television interviews. Working with President Moon has been my great honor. And likewise, working with President Xi of China and Prime Minister Abe of Japan has been a pleasure and an honor. Each of us follows in the footsteps of countless world leaders, diplomats, and public servants who came here to the United Nations with the same noble goal: to build a future worthy of the patriots — true, true patriots — who sacrificed their lives for our nation and for our future. To be successful, we need a commitment of every nation represented in this chamber. Acting together, we can replace the horrors of war with the blessings of safety and the beautiful promise of peace. Thank you very much. I now resume my function as president of the Security Council and give the floor to the President of France. END 10:32 A.M. EDT
Well, thank you very much everyone. This is a great honor. And, Mr. Secretary-General, I’d like to commend you on the job you’re doing at the United Nations. I’ve long said the United Nations has such tremendous potential. Everybody gathered together, all of these great leaders, world leaders — people that we all know and read about on a weekly basis, sometimes a daily basis. But the United Nations has this incredible potential to bring people together. I think we’re an example — certain things we’re doing now toward world peace. We’re truly a direct — has a direct relationship to the time I spent at the United Nations, meeting some of you. Many of you are now friends. When I first came here, even though I lived in New York, it was a little bit of a foreign territory to me, the United Nations. But now it’s like home. But so many great people, so many great leaders in this room. And a lot of terrific things are happening. We covered, as you know, during my speech, North Korea. Last year, my tone was somewhat different on North Korea than it is right now. Tremendous progress has been made. And I think you’re going to see an outcome. As the expression goes, “Who knows?” But I think you’re going to see a very, very great outcome. I hope that, eventually, some of the other countries that we have conflict with — if not war-like conflict, trade conflict, other types of conflict — a lot of those problems will disappear, I think, by next year. I want to just thank you on behalf of myself, Secretary Pompeo, Secretary Nikki Haley. So many people have such respect for the job you’re doing, Mr. Secretary-General. And on behalf of the United States, I’d like to toast to you, and I’d like to toast the United Nations. Thank you very much. Thank you. END 1:33 P.M. EDT
Madam President, Mr. Secretary-General, world leaders, ambassadors, and distinguished delegates: One year ago, I stood before you for the first time in this grand hall. I addressed the threats facing our world, and I presented a vision to achieve a brighter future for all of humanity. Today, I stand before the United Nations General Assembly to share the extraordinary progress we’ve made. In less than two years, my administration has accomplished more than almost any administration in the history of our country. America’s — so true. Didn’t expect that reaction, but that’s okay. America’s economy is booming like never before. Since my election, we’ve added $10 trillion in wealth. The stock market is at an all-time high in history, and jobless claims are at a 50-year low. African American, Hispanic American, and Asian American unemployment have all achieved their lowest levels ever recorded. We’ve added more than 4 million new jobs, including half a million manufacturing jobs. We have passed the biggest tax cuts and reforms in American history. We’ve started the construction of a major border wall, and we have greatly strengthened border security. We have secured record funding for our military — $700 billion this year, and $716 billion next year. Our military will soon be more powerful than it has ever been before. In other words, the United States is stronger, safer, and a richer country than it was when I assumed office less than two years ago. We are standing up for America and for the American people. And we are also standing up for the world. This is great news for our citizens and for peace-loving people everywhere. We believe that when nations respect the rights of their neighbors, and defend the interests of their people, they can better work together to secure the blessings of safety, prosperity, and peace. Each of us here today is the emissary of a distinct culture, a rich history, and a people bound together by ties of memory, tradition, and the values that make our homelands like nowhere else on Earth. That is why America will always choose independence and cooperation over global governance, control, and domination. I honor the right of every nation in this room to pursue its own customs, beliefs, and traditions. The United States will not tell you how to live or work or worship. We only ask that you honor our sovereignty in return. From Warsaw to Brussels, to Tokyo to Singapore, it has been my highest honor to represent the United States abroad. I have forged close relationships and friendships and strong partnerships with the leaders of many nations in this room, and our approach has already yielded incredible change. With support from many countries here today, we have engaged with North Korea to replace the specter of conflict with a bold and new push for peace. In June, I traveled to Singapore to meet face to face with North Korea’s leader, Chairman Kim Jong Un. We had highly productive conversations and meetings, and we agreed that it was in both countries’ interest to pursue the denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula. Since that meeting, we have already seen a number of encouraging measures that few could have imagined only a short time ago. The missiles and rockets are no longer flying in every direction. Nuclear testing has stopped. Some military facilities are already being dismantled. Our hostages have been released. And as promised, the remains of our fallen heroes are being returned home to lay at rest in American soil. I would like to thank Chairman Kim for his courage and for the steps he has taken, though much work remains to be done. The sanctions will stay in place until denuclearization occurs. I also want to thank the many member states who helped us reach this moment — a moment that is actually far greater than people would understand; far greater — but for also their support and the critical support that we will all need going forward. A special thanks to President Moon of South Korea, Prime Minister Abe of Japan, and President Xi of China. In the Middle East, our new approach is also yielding great strides and very historic change. Following my trip to Saudi Arabia last year, the Gulf countries opened a new center to target terrorist financing. They are enforcing new sanctions, working with us to identify and track terrorist networks, and taking more responsibility for fighting terrorism and extremism in their own region. The UAE, Saudi Arabia, and Qatar have pledged billions of dollars to aid the people of Syria and Yemen. And they are pursuing multiple avenues to ending Yemen’s horrible, horrific civil war. Ultimately, it is up to the nations of the region to decide what kind of future they want for themselves and their children. For that reason, the United States is working with the Gulf Cooperation Council, Jordan, and Egypt to establish a regional strategic alliance so that Middle Eastern nations can advance prosperity, stability, and security across their home region. Thanks to the United States military and our partnership with many of your nations, I am pleased to report that the bloodthirsty killers known as ISIS have been driven out from the territory they once held in Iraq and Syria. We will continue to work with friends and allies to deny radical Islamic terrorists any funding, territory or support, or any means of infiltrating our borders. The ongoing tragedy in Syria is heartbreaking. Our shared goals must be the de-escalation of military conflict, along with a political solution that honors the will of the Syrian people. In this vein, we urge the United Nations-led peace process be reinvigorated. But, rest assured, the United States will respond if chemical weapons are deployed by the Assad regime. I commend the people of Jordan and other neighboring countries for hosting refugees from this very brutal civil war. As we see in Jordan, the most compassionate policy is to place refugees as close to their homes as possible to ease their eventual return to be part of the rebuilding process. This approach also stretches finite resources to help far more people, increasing the impact of every dollar spent. Every solution to the humanitarian crisis in Syria must also include a strategy to address the brutal regime that has fueled and financed it: the corrupt dictatorship in Iran. Iran’s leaders sow chaos, death, and destruction. They do not respect their neighbors or borders, or the sovereign rights of nations. Instead, Iran’s leaders plunder the nation’s resources to enrich themselves and to spread mayhem across the Middle East and far beyond. The Iranian people are rightly outraged that their leaders have embezzled billions of dollars from Iran’s treasury, seized valuable portions of the economy, and looted the people’s religious endowments, all to line their own pockets and send their proxies to wage war. Not good. Iran’s neighbors have paid a heavy toll for the region’s agenda of aggression and expansion. That is why so many countries in the Middle East strongly supported my decision to withdraw the United States from the horrible 2015 Iran Nuclear Deal and re-impose nuclear sanctions. The Iran deal was a windfall for Iran’s leaders. In the years since the deal was reached, Iran’s military budget grew nearly 40 percent. The dictatorship used the funds to build nuclear-capable missiles, increase internal repression, finance terrorism, and fund havoc and slaughter in Syria and Yemen. The United States has launched a campaign of economic pressure to deny the regime the funds it needs to advance its bloody agenda. Last month, we began re-imposing hard-hitting nuclear sanctions that had been lifted under the Iran deal. Additional sanctions will resume November 5th, and more will follow. And we’re working with countries that import Iranian crude oil to cut their purchases substantially. We cannot allow the world’s leading sponsor of terrorism to possess the planet’s most dangerous weapons. We cannot allow a regime that chants “Death to America,” and that threatens Israel with annihilation, to possess the means to deliver a nuclear warhead to any city on Earth. Just can’t do it. We ask all nations to isolate Iran’s regime as long as its aggression continues. And we ask all nations to support Iran’s people as they struggle to reclaim their religious and righteous destiny. This year, we also took another significant step forward in the Middle East. In recognition of every sovereign state to determine its own capital, I moved the U.S. Embassy in Israel to Jerusalem. The United States is committed to a future of peace and stability in the region, including peace between the Israelis and the Palestinians. That aim is advanced, not harmed, by acknowledging the obvious facts. America’s policy of principled realism means we will not be held hostage to old dogmas, discredited ideologies, and so-called experts who have been proven wrong over the years, time and time again. This is true not only in matters of peace, but in matters of prosperity. We believe that trade must be fair and reciprocal. The United States will not be taken advantage of any longer. For decades, the United States opened its economy — the largest, by far, on Earth — with few conditions. We allowed foreign goods from all over the world to flow freely across our borders. Yet, other countries did not grant us fair and reciprocal access to their markets in return. Even worse, some countries abused their openness to dump their products, subsidize their goods, target our industries, and manipulate their currencies to gain unfair advantage over our country. As a result, our trade deficit ballooned to nearly $800 billion a year. For this reason, we are systematically renegotiating broken and bad trade deals. Last month, we announced a groundbreaking U.S.-Mexico trade agreement. And just yesterday, I stood with President Moon to announce the successful completion of the brand new U.S.-Korea trade deal. And this is just the beginning. Many nations in this hall will agree that the world trading system is in dire need of change. For example, countries were admitted to the World Trade Organization that violate every single principle on which the organization is based. While the United States and many other nations play by the rules, these countries use government-run industrial planning and state-owned enterprises to rig the system in their favor. They engage in relentless product dumping, forced technology transfer, and the theft of intellectual property. The United States lost over 3 million manufacturing jobs, nearly a quarter of all steel jobs, and 60,000 factories after China joined the WTO. And we have racked up $13 trillion in trade deficits over the last two decades. But those days are over. We will no longer tolerate such abuse. We will not allow our workers to be victimized, our companies to be cheated, and our wealth to be plundered and transferred. America will never apologize for protecting its citizens. The United States has just announced tariffs on another $200 billion in Chinese-made goods for a total, so far, of $250 billion. I have great respect and affection for my friend, President Xi, but I have made clear our trade imbalance is just not acceptable. China’s market distortions and the way they deal cannot be tolerated. As my administration has demonstrated, America will always act in our national interest. I spoke before this body last year and warned that the U.N. Human Rights Council had become a grave embarrassment to this institution, shielding egregious human rights abusers while bashing America and its many friends. Our Ambassador to the United Nations, Nikki Haley, laid out a clear agenda for reform, but despite reported and repeated warnings, no action at all was taken. So the United States took the only responsible course: We withdrew from the Human Rights Council, and we will not return until real reform is enacted. For similar reasons, the United States will provide no support in recognition to the International Criminal Court. As far as America is concerned, the ICC has no jurisdiction, no legitimacy, and no authority. The ICC claims near-universal jurisdiction over the citizens of every country, violating all principles of justice, fairness, and due process. We will never surrender America’s sovereignty to an unelected, unaccountable, global bureaucracy. America is governed by Americans. We reject the ideology of globalism, and we embrace the doctrine of patriotism. Around the world, responsible nations must defend against threats to sovereignty not just from global governance, but also from other, new forms of coercion and domination. In America, we believe strongly in energy security for ourselves and for our allies. We have become the largest energy producer anywhere on the face of the Earth. The United States stands ready to export our abundant, affordable supply of oil, clean coal, and natural gas. OPEC and OPEC nations, are, as usual, ripping off the rest of the world, and I don’t like it. Nobody should like it. We defend many of these nations for nothing, and then they take advantage of us by giving us high oil prices. Not good. We want them to stop raising prices, we want them to start lowering prices, and they must contribute substantially to military protection from now on. We are not going to put up with it — these horrible prices — much longer. Reliance on a single foreign supplier can leave a nation vulnerable to extortion and intimidation. That is why we congratulate European states, such as Poland, for leading the construction of a Baltic pipeline so that nations are not dependent on Russia to meet their energy needs. Germany will become totally dependent on Russian energy if it does not immediately change course. Here in the Western Hemisphere, we are committed to maintaining our independence from the encroachment of expansionist foreign powers. It has been the formal policy of our country since President Monroe that we reject the interference of foreign nations in this hemisphere and in our own affairs. The United States has recently strengthened our laws to better screen foreign investments in our country for national security threats, and we welcome cooperation with countries in this region and around the world that wish to do the same. You need to do it for your own protection. The United States is also working with partners in Latin America to confront threats to sovereignty from uncontrolled migration. Tolerance for human struggling and human smuggling and trafficking is not humane. It’s a horrible thing that’s going on, at levels that nobody has ever seen before. It’s very, very cruel. Illegal immigration funds criminal networks, ruthless gangs, and the flow of deadly drugs. Illegal immigration exploits vulnerable populations, hurts hardworking citizens, and has produced a vicious cycle of crime, violence, and poverty. Only by upholding national borders, destroying criminal gangs, can we break this cycle and establish a real foundation for prosperity. We recognize the right of every nation in this room to set its own immigration policy in accordance with its national interests, just as we ask other countries to respect our own right to do the same — which we are doing. That is one reason the United States will not participate in the new Global Compact on Migration. Migration should not be governed by an international body unaccountable to our own citizens. Ultimately, the only long-term solution to the migration crisis is to help people build more hopeful futures in their home countries. Make their countries great again. Currently, we are witnessing a human tragedy, as an example, in Venezuela. More than 2 million people have fled the anguish inflicted by the socialist Maduro regime and its Cuban sponsors. Not long ago, Venezuela was one of the richest countries on Earth. Today, socialism has bankrupted the oil-rich nation and driven its people into abject poverty. Virtually everywhere socialism or communism has been tried, it has produced suffering, corruption, and decay. Socialism’s thirst for power leads to expansion, incursion, and oppression. All nations of the world should resist socialism and the misery that it brings to everyone. In that spirit, we ask the nations gathered here to join us in calling for the restoration of democracy in Venezuela. Today, we are announcing additional sanctions against the repressive regime, targeting Maduro’s inner circle and close advisors. We are grateful for all the work the United Nations does around the world to help people build better lives for themselves and their families. The United States is the world’s largest giver in the world, by far, of foreign aid. But few give anything to us. That is why we are taking a hard look at U.S. foreign assistance. That will be headed up by Secretary of State Mike Pompeo. We will examine what is working, what is not working, and whether the countries who receive our dollars and our protection also have our interests at heart. Moving forward, we are only going to give foreign aid to those who respect us and, frankly, are our friends. And we expect other countries to pay their fair share for the cost of their defense. The United States is committed to making the United Nations more effective and accountable. I have said many times that the United Nations has unlimited potential. As part of our reform effort, I have told our negotiators that the United States will not pay more than 25 percent of the U.N. peacekeeping budget. This will encourage other countries to step up, get involved, and also share in this very large burden. And we are working to shift more of our funding from assessed contributions to voluntary so that we can target American resources to the programs with the best record of success. Only when each of us does our part and contributes our share can we realize the U.N.’s highest aspirations. We must pursue peace without fear, hope without despair, and security without apology. Looking around this hall where so much history has transpired, we think of the many before us who have come here to address the challenges of their nations and of their times. And our thoughts turn to the same question that ran through all their speeches and resolutions, through every word and every hope. It is the question of what kind of world will we leave for our children and what kind of nations they will inherit. The dreams that fill this hall today are as diverse as the people who have stood at this podium, and as varied as the countries represented right here in this body are. It really is something. It really is great, great history. There is India, a free society over a billion people, successfully lifting countless millions out of poverty and into the middle class. There is Saudi Arabia, where King Salman and the Crown Prince are pursuing bold new reforms. There is Israel, proudly celebrating its 70th anniversary as a thriving democracy in the Holy Land. In Poland, a great people are standing up for their independence, their security, and their sovereignty. Many countries are pursuing their own unique visions, building their own hopeful futures, and chasing their own wonderful dreams of destiny, of legacy, and of a home. The whole world is richer, humanity is better, because of this beautiful constellation of nations, each very special, each very unique, and each shining brightly in its part of the world. In each one, we see awesome promise of a people bound together by a shared past and working toward a common future. As for Americans, we know what kind of future we want for ourselves. We know what kind of a nation America must always be. In America, we believe in the majesty of freedom and the dignity of the individual. We believe in self-government and the rule of law. And we prize the culture that sustains our liberty -– a culture built on strong families, deep faith, and fierce independence. We celebrate our heroes, we treasure our traditions, and above all, we love our country. Inside everyone in this great chamber today, and everyone listening all around the globe, there is the heart of a patriot that feels the same powerful love for your nation, the same intense loyalty to your homeland. The passion that burns in the hearts of patriots and the souls of nations has inspired reform and revolution, sacrifice and selflessness, scientific breakthroughs, and magnificent works of art. Our task is not to erase it, but to embrace it. To build with it. To draw on its ancient wisdom. And to find within it the will to make our nations greater, our regions safer, and the world better. To unleash this incredible potential in our people, we must defend the foundations that make it all possible. Sovereign and independent nations are the only vehicle where freedom has ever survived, democracy has ever endured, or peace has ever prospered. And so we must protect our sovereignty and our cherished independence above all. When we do, we will find new avenues for cooperation unfolding before us. We will find new passion for peacemaking rising within us. We will find new purpose, new resolve, and new spirit flourishing all around us, and making this a more beautiful world in which to live. So together, let us choose a future of patriotism, prosperity, and pride. Let us choose peace and freedom over domination and defeat. And let us come here to this place to stand for our people and their nations, forever strong, forever sovereign, forever just, and forever thankful for the grace and the goodness and the glory of God. Thank you. God bless you. And God bless the nations of the world. Thank you very much. Thank you. END 11:13 A.M. EDT
Thank you very much for being here this morning, and thank you to Secretary Mnuchin for joining us. And congratulations. You’re doing a great job. We appreciate it very much, Steve. I especially want to welcome Senators John Cornyn, who has been working so hard lately, and especially at the border. We’re doing things that nobody else thought we could do with very bad legislation. Better get that legislation changed. I think we’ll get it done. Tom Cotton, Mike Crapo, Marco Rubio, and Jeb Hensarling — I want to thank you all. This has been a tremendous thing that we’re sort of announcing today, but people are — they found out about it. Each of you was instrumental in passing the Foreign Investment Risk Review Modernization Act — so important — which was included in the National Defense Authorization Act that I signed into law earlier this month. This new authority will enhance our ability to protect cutting-edge American technology and intellectual property vital to our national security. You’ve all been reading that intellectual property and all sorts of different things of that nature are being stolen from us by other countries. It’s going to be very hard for them to do that. We’re putting a lot of safeguards in, and we’re doing a lot of things against foreign acquisition of property, and especially where they’re near sensitive military installations. So this was a very big deal. This was a very important deal. And the people in this room are the people that really were most instrumental in wanting it and getting it passed. Because of our incredible achievements, other nations seek to steal, copy, or control American intellectual property. And we had very, very little safeguards up. We had, in many cases, I would say, Marco, no safeguards. And now we have probably the best there is in the world. We’ll see if that’s good enough, and if it’s not, then we will keep adding on to it. This weakens our economy when they steal, destroys our jobs, and threatens the security of our country. I’m pleased this new legislation provides the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States greater authority when it comes to reviewing foreign ownership of American firms with critical technology and intellectual property. And if we see something we don’t like — some country is buying something that we don’t want them to be buying — we stop it. We now have the right to stop it. They won’t be stealing our companies anymore, especially companies that are quite complex. We will protect America’s crown jewels of intellectual property and advanced technologies from harmful foreign investments. I look forward to a productive discussion with the members of Congress here today. To a certain extent, this is a little bit of a celebration meeting, more so than a meeting, John. Right? More than a meeting on the act itself. Because we passed the Foreign Investment Risk Review Modernization Act. But we’re very proud of it. It was in the making for years, and we got it done. So I want to very much thank the people in this room. This is really the group that worked so hard to get it. And, Mike, maybe I’d have you start off. We’ll go around the room; we’ll say a few words about what we’ve done. Thank you, Mike. It’s true. That’s true. Thank you. Great job you’ve done. Marco? Great job, Marco. And I have to tell you that — and you see it; you brought it up to me the other day — so our country, since the election, we’re up $10 trillion in worth. And unfortunately — but this is the way it goes — China, over the last four months, is down about $15 trillion. We have to stop it. We can’t allow the things that were happening to happen. And also, we can’t allow just common trade to stay the way it was — $517 billion in deficits each year. So that’s not happening anymore. No, I think we’re going to — and as you see, we’re rising very rapidly. We’re rising. And people have said to me, it’s the first time they’ve ever seen it where the United States is like a hot country. We used to be a hot country many years ago. but now we’re the hot country again. Everybody wants to be here. Companies are moving in. We want some of these companies to move in also, and they’re going to be now protected and we’re going to be protected that there won’t be theft of high-grade technology. So, thank you, Marco. I appreciate it. John? Not Russia? Not Russia? Well, I think not enough focus has been put on China. And that’s been for a long time. And we want to have — a big focus is on Russia. Not enough focus is on China — and other countries, frankly. Not just Russia and China; it’s many countries we have to watch. And probably individuals also. But this goes a long way. And I appreciate, very much, your words. It’s — you’ve done a great job. Thank you very much, John. Steve? You guys like all those cameras behind your head as you speak? I’d be very, very — I’d take a long time in combing my hair if I was going to be in that seat. It would take a long time. Tom? Especially the F-22. And, Tom, you know, we’ve put a $50 billion number out there. Now, the total number is $250 billion. But of that, $50 billion has to do with technology — high tech and things. And there’s a 25-percent tax on that, now, coming in. And I think that, economically, also helps us. This is very different, but it also helps us. And people are saying that’s already having a big effect. And it is already; we’re collecting that money. It’s a lot of money. Much of it is being collected. Some of it starts in a week. But it’s a tremendous amount of money coming into the coffers of the United States, which nobody has ever seen that before. Nobody has ever come close to seeing that before, actually. Jeb? Thank you, Jeb, very much. This is really a great achievement, and I want to thank everybody in the room very much. Great job. Thank you, everybody, very much. Thank you. END 11:49 A.M. EDT
Thank you, everybody. Yesterday, I returned from a trip from Europe where I met with leaders from across the region to seek a more peaceful future for the United States. We’re working very hard with our allies, and all over the world we’re working. We’re going to have peace. That’s what we want; that’s what we’re going to have. I say peace through strength. I have helped the NATO Alliance greatly by increasing defense contributions from our NATO Allies by over $44 billion. And Secretary Stoltenberg was fantastic. As you know, he reported that they’ve never had an increase like this in their history, and NATO was actually going down as opposed to going up. And I increased it by my meeting last year — $44 billion. And this year will be over — it will be hundreds of billions of dollars over the coming years. And I think there’s great unity with NATO. There’s a lot of very positive things happening. There’s a great spirit that we didn’t have before, and there’s a lot of money that they’re putting up. They weren’t paying their bills on time, and now they’re doing that. And I want to just say thank you very much to Secretary Stoltenberg. He really has been terrific. So we had a tremendous success. I also had meetings with Prime Minister May on the range of issues concerning our special relationship, and that’s between the United Kingdom and ourselves. We met with the Queen, who is absolutely a terrific person, where she reviewed her Honor Guard for the first time in 70 years, they tell me. We walked in front of the Honor Guard, and that was very inspiring to see and be with her. And I think the relationship, I can truly say, is a good one. But she was very, very inspiring indeed. Most recently, I returned from Helsinki, Finland, and I was going to give a news conference over the next couple of days about the tremendous success. Because as successful as NATO was, I think this was our most successful visit. And that had to do, as you know, with Russia. I met with Russian President Vladimir Putin in an attempt to tackle some of the most pressing issues facing humanity. We have never been in a worse relationship with Russia than we are as of a few days ago, and I think that’s gotten substantially better. And I think it has the possibility of getting much better. And I used to talk about this during the campaign. Getting along with Russia would be a good thing. Getting along with China would be a good thing. Not a bad thing; a good thing. In fact, a very good thing. We’re nuclear powers — great nuclear powers. Russia and us have 90 percent of the nuclear weapons. So I’ve always felt getting along is a positive thing, and not just for that reason. I entered the meeting with the firm conviction that diplomacy and engagement is better than hostility and conflict. And I feel that with everybody. We have 29 members in NATO, as an example, and I have great relationships — or at least very good relationships — with everybody. The press covered it quite inaccurately. They said I insulted people. Well, if asking for people to pay up money that they are supposed to pay is insulting, maybe I did. But I can tell you, when I left, everybody was thrilled. And that’s the way this was, too. My meeting with President Putin was really interesting in so many different ways because we haven’t had relationships with Russia for a long time, and we started. Let me begin by saying that, once again, the full faith and support for America’s intelligence agencies — I have a full faith in our intelligence agencies. Whoops, they just turned off the light. That must be the intelligence agents. There it goes. Okay. You guys okay? Good. That was strange. But that’s okay. So I’ll begin by stating that I have full faith and support for America’s great intelligence agencies. Always have. And I have felt very strongly that, while Russia’s actions had no impact at all on the outcome of the election, let me be totally clear in saying that — and I’ve said this many times — I accept our intelligence community’s conclusion that Russia’s meddling in the 2016 election took place. Could be other people also; there’s a lot of people out there. There was no collusion at all. And people have seen that, and they’ve seen that strongly. The House has already come out very strongly on that. A lot of people have come out strongly on that. I thought that I made myself very clear by having just reviewed the transcript. Now, I have to say, I came back, and I said, “What is going on? What’s the big deal?” So I got a transcript. I reviewed it. I actually went out and reviewed a clip of an answer that I gave, and I realized that there is need for some clarification. It should have been obvious — I thought it would be obvious — but I would like to clarify, just in case it wasn’t. In a key sentence in my remarks, I said the word “would” instead of “wouldn’t.” The sentence should have been: I don’t see any reason why I wouldn’t — or why it wouldn’t be Russia. So just to repeat it, I said the word “would” instead of “wouldn’t.” And the sentence should have been — and I thought it would be maybe a little bit unclear on the transcript or unclear on the actual video — the sentence should have been: I don’t see any reason why it wouldn’t be Russia. Sort of a double negative. So you can put that in, and I think that probably clarifies things pretty good by itself. I have, on numerous occasions, noted our intelligence findings that Russians attempted to interfere in our elections. Unlike previous administrations, my administration has and will continue to move aggressively to repeal any efforts — and repel — we will stop it, we will repel it — any efforts to interfere in our elections. We’re doing everything in our power to prevent Russian interference in 2018. And we have a lot of power. As you know, President Obama was given information just prior to the election — last election, 2016 — and they decided not to do anything about it. The reason they decided that was pretty obvious to all: They thought Hillary Clinton was going to win the election, and they didn’t think it was a big deal. When I won the election, they thought it was a very big deal. And all of the sudden they went into action, but it was a little bit late. So he was given that in sharp contrast to the way it should be. And President Obama, along with Brennan and Clapper and the whole group that you see on television now — probably getting paid a lot of money by your networks — they knew about Russia’s attempt to interfere in the election in September, and they totally buried it. And as I said, they buried it because they thought that Hillary Clinton was going to win. It turned out it didn’t happen that way. By contrast, my administration has taken a very firm stance — it’s a very firm stance — on a strong action. We’re going to take strong action to secure our election systems and the process. Furthermore, as has been stated — and we’ve stated it previously and on many occasions: No collusion. Yesterday, we made significant progress toward addressing some of the worst conflicts on Earth. So when I met with President Putin for about two and a half hours, we talked about numerous things. And among those things are the problems that you see in the Middle East, where they’re much involved, we’re very much involved. I entered the negotiations with President Putin from a position of tremendous strength. Our economy is booming. And our military is being funded $700 billion this year; $716 billion next year. It will be more powerful as a military than we’ve ever had before. President Putin and I addressed the range of issues, starting with the civil war in Syria and the need for humanitarian aid and help for people in Syria. We also spoke of Iran and the need to halt their nuclear ambitions and the destabilizing activities taking place in Iran. As most of you know, we ended the Iran deal, which was one of the worst deals anyone could imagine. And that’s had a major impact on Iran. And it’s substantially weakened Iran. And we hope that, at some point, Iran will call us and we’ll maybe make a new deal, or we maybe won’t. But Iran is not the same country that it was five months ago, that I can tell you. They’re no longer looking so much to the Mediterranean and the entire Middle East. They’ve got some big problems that they can solve, probably much easier if they deal with us. So we’ll see what happens. But we did discuss Iran. We discussed Israel and the security of Israel. And President Putin is very much involved now with us in a discussion with Bibi Netanyahu on working something out with surrounding Syria and — Syria, and specifically with regards to the security and long-term security of Israel. A major topic of discussion was North Korea and the need for it to remove its nuclear weapons. Russia has assured us of its support. President Putin said he agrees with me 100 percent, and they’ll do whatever they have to do to try and make it happen. Discussions are ongoing and they’re going very, very well. We have no rush for speed. The sanctions are remaining. The hostages are back. There have been no tests. There have been no rockets going up for a period of nine months. And I think the relationships are very good. So we’ll see how that goes. We have no time limit. We have no speed limit. We have — we’re just going through the process. But the relationships are very good. President Putin is going to be involved in the sense that he is with us. He would like to see that happen. Perhaps the most important issue we discussed at our meeting prior to the press conference was the reduction of nuclear weapons throughout the world. The United States and Russia have 90 percent, as I said, and we could have a big impact. But nuclear weapons is, I think, the greatest threat of our world today. And they’re a great nuclear power. We’re a great nuclear power. We have to do something about nuclear. And so that was a matter that we discussed actually in great detail, and President Putin agrees with me. The matters we discussed are profound in their importance and have the potential to save millions of lives. I understand the many disagreements between our countries, but I also understand the dialogue and the — when you think about it, dialogue with Russia or dialogue with other countries. But dialogue with Russia, in this case, where we’ve had such poor relationships for so many years, dialogue is a very important thing and it’s a very good thing. So if we get along with them, great. If we don’t get along with them, then, well, we won’t get along with them. But I think we have a very good chance of having some very positive things. I thought that the meeting that I had with President Putin was really strong. I think that they were willing to do things that, frankly, I wasn’t sure whether or not they would be willing to do. And we’ll be having future meetings and we’ll see whether or not that comes to fruition. But we had a very, very good meeting. So I just wanted to clear up, I have the strongest respect for our intelligence agencies headed by my people. We have great people, whether it’s Gina or Dan Coats, or any of them. I mean, we have tremendous people, tremendous talent within the agencies. I think they’re being guided properly. And we all want the same thing; we want success for our country. So with that, we’re going to start a meeting now on tax reductions. We’re going to be putting in a bill. Kevin Brady is with us, and I might ask Kevin just to say a couple of words about that, and then we’ll get back on to a private meeting. But, Kevin, could you maybe give just a brief discussion about what we’ll be talking about? And the time of submittal, what would you think that would be, Kevin? Good. Well, that’s great. Thank you very much everybody. Thank you very much. Thank you. Q Did you talk about reducing sanctions with Mr. Putin? Did you talk about — did you talk about rolling back sanctions? We’re not lifting sanctions. What? Q The Russians sanctions will remain. Is that what you meant? Yeah, everything is remaining. We’re not lifting sanctions. Q Are you going to increase sanctions on Russia, sir? Not lifting sanctions. No. END 2:28 P.M. EDT
Well, thank you very much, everybody. Appreciate it. We’ve had a very amazing two-day period in Brussels. And we really accomplished a lot, with respect to NATO. For years, Presidents have been coming to these meetings and talked about the expense — the tremendous expense for the United States. And tremendous progress has been made; everyone has agreed to substantially up their commitment. They’re going to up it at levels that they’ve never thought of before. Prior to last year, where I attended my first meeting, it was going down — the amount of money being spent by countries was going down and down very substantially. And now, it’s going up very substantially. And commitments were made. Only 5 of 29 countries were making their commitment. And that’s now changed. The commitment was at 2 percent. Ultimately, that’ll be going up quite a bit higher than that. So we are — we made a tremendous amount of progress today. It’s been about, at a minimum, they estimate — and they’re going to be giving you exact numbers — but since last year, they’ve raise an additional $33 billion that’s been put up by the various countries, not including the United States. And the United States’ commitment to NATO is very strong, remains very strong, but primarily because everyone — the spirit they have, the amount of money they’re willing to spend, the additional money that they will be putting up has been really, really amazing to see it. To see the level of spirit in that room is incredible. And I hope that we’re going to be able to get along with Russia. I think that we probably will be able to. The people in the room think so, but they nevertheless — they really stepped up their commitment, and stepped it up like they never have before. So took in an addition $33 . The number could actually be higher than $40 when they give you the final number. The Secretary General, Stoltenberg, will be giving those numbers sometime today, probably in his concluding press statement. But we are doing numbers like they’ve never done before or ever seen before. And you’ll be seeing that, and I guess you’ll be hearing that a little bit later. Okay. We have our Secretary of State, as you know, and we have — John is here. So if you have any questions for the three of us. Mike Pompeo just got back from a third trip, as you know, to North Korea. He’s become a true expert on the trips to North Korea — the best way to get there, the best way to get out. And he gets along very well. And he’s doing a great job over there. Yes, ma’am. Q I have a question. Yes. Q Mr. President, I’m Tara McKelvey with the BBC. Can you tell us whether or not you warned people that the U.S. would pull out of NATO if they weren’t meeting their spending goals? I told people that I’d be very unhappy if they didn’t up their commitments very substantially, because the United States has been paying a tremendous amount, probably 90 percent of the cost of NATO. And now, people are going to start and countries are going to start upping their commitments. So I let them know yesterday, actually. I was surprised that you didn’t pick it up; it took until today. But yesterday, I let them know that I was extremely unhappy with what was happening, and they have substantially upped their commitment, yeah. And now we’re very happy and have a very, very powerful, very, very strong NATO, much stronger than it was two days ago. Yes, ma’am. Q Hi, President Trump. Yes, hi. How are you? Q I’m the White House Correspondent for PBS — I know. You’re very famous on television. Q I have a question, again, about — did you ever, at any point, say that the U.S., though, might stop engaging with NATO? And do you think that your rhetoric helps NATO cohesion, or are you worried that people might think that U.S. might not be as committed to NATO? There are a lot of people who say they were worried and stressed by what you did yesterday. Well, they were probably worried because the United States was not being treated fairly, but now we are, because the commitment has been upped so much. So now they are. And I was very firm yesterday. You have to understand, I know a lot of the people in the room. I was here last year. I let them know last year — in a less firm manner, but pretty firm — and they raised an additional $33 billion, I think going to $40 billion. But it’s $33 billion as of today. And then today and yesterday, I was probably a little bit more firm. But I believe in NATO. I think NATO is a very important — probably the greatest ever done. But the United States was paying for anywhere from 70 to 90 percent of it, depending on the way you calculate. That’s not fair to the United States. In addition to that, as you know, we’re in negotiations with the EU, and we’re going to be meeting with them next week. We’ve been treated very unfairly on trade. Our farmers have been shut out of the European Union. Now, you could say they’re different, but basically, to a large extent, they’re the same countries. So I think we’re going to be ultimately treated fairly on trade. We’ll see what happens, but I can tell you that NATO now is really a fine-tuned machine. People are paying money that they never paid before. They’re happy to do it. And the United States is being treated much more fairly. Yes, sir. Q President Trump, Ryan Chilcote, PBS NewsHour. Did you win concessions in your meetings and discussions with the German Chancellor when it comes to German defense spending and also with this issue of purchasing energy from Russia? And secondly, what would you say to your critics that say by creating this scene here at NATO you’re only enabling President Putin and Russia to further disturb things in Ukraine and Georgia? Well, if you consider putting up tremendously — you know, the additional funds at a level that nobody has ever seen before, I don’t think that’s helping Russia. I think that NATO is much stronger now than it was two days ago. I think that NATO was not doing what they were supposed to be doing — a lot of the countries. And we were doing much more than we should have been doing. Frankly, we were carrying too much of a burden. That’s why we call it “burden-sharing.” I was using the term a lot today. “Burden-sharing.” We had a fantastic meeting at the end — 29 countries. And they are putting up a lot. Germany has increased very substantially their time period, and Germany is coming along. And we still have to figure out what’s going on with the pipeline, because the pipeline is coming in from Russia. So we’re going to have to figure that out. I brought it up; nobody brought it up but me, and we all are talking about it now. And actually, I think the world is talking about it now maybe more than anything else. But we’re going to figure that out. But — and, frankly, maybe everybody is going to have a good relationship with Russia so there will be a lot less problem with the pipeline. But, to me, that was a very major point of contention. We discussed it at length today. Germany has agreed to do a lot better than they were doing, and we’re very happy with that. We had a very good relationship with Angela Merkel. Yes. Q Mr. President — Yeah, go ahead. Q Hi. Thank you. Margaret Talev from Bloomberg. Yes. After all these years, I know, Margaret. Go ahead. Q Thank you. Maybe I’m being dense here, but could you just clarify: Are you still threatening to potentially pull the United States out of NATO for any reason? And do you believe you can do that without Congress’s explicit support and approval? I think I probably can, but that’s unnecessary. And the people have stepped up today like they’ve never stepped up before. And remember the word — $33 billion more, they’re paying. And you’ll hear that from the Secretary General in a little while. He thanked me actually. He actually thanked me. And everybody in the room thanked me. There’s a great collegial spirit in that room that I don’t think they’ve had in many years. They’re very strong. So, yeah, very unified, very strong. No problem. Right? Yes, go ahead. Q We’re in NATO. No — no — No problem. Go ahead. Q Mr. President, Jonathan Lemire with the Associated Press. You have said previously you wanted the countries to step up their spending to 2 percent. Yesterday there was a suggestion it might be 4 percent, or perhaps 2 percent at a much quicker timetable. Can you clarify, what did they commit to doing? Is that satisfactory to you? So what they’re doing is spending at a much faster clip. They’re going up to the 2 percent level. Now, you have to understand, some of them have parliaments, they have their own congresses, they have a lot of things they have to go through. So, you know, they’re here as prime minister or a as a president, and they can’t necessarily go in and say, this is what we’re going to do. But they’re going back for approvals. Some are at 2 percent; others have agreed definitely to go to 2 percent. And some are going back to get the approval, and which they will get, to go to 2 percent. After the 2 percent, we’ll start talking about going higher. But I said, ultimately we should be, in years — in advance — we should be at 4 percent. I think 4 percent, it’s the right number. Now, the United States — depending on the way you calculate it — was at 4.2 percent. And I said, that’s unfair. And we have the largest GDP by far, especially since we’ve increased it by so much since a thing called the election. Our GDP has gone way up. And so the fact that our GDP went way up, that means we’re paying for even more, which is very unfair. So I explained that. We will go to much higher than 2 percent into the future, but right now we’re getting people up to 2 percent, and that will take place over a fairly short period of time — a short number of years. Okay? Yeah, go ahead. Q Hi, Tomas LeCrass from journalist Croatia Daily Newspaper. We understand your message — Congratulations, by the way. Q Thank you. On soccer. Q Thank you. We understand your message, but some people ask themselves, will you be tweeting differently once you board the Air Force One? Thank you. No, that’s other people that do that. I don’t. I’m very consistent. I’m a very stable genius. Go ahead. Yeah, go ahead. Q Thank you, sir. Jeremy Diamond with CNN. How are you? Hi, Jeremy. Q Quick question with regards to Germany and the comments that you made yesterday. Do you feel like given the threats that you made about potentially leaving NATO, about insulting Germany’s sovereignty, it appears, by suggesting that they’re totally controlled by Russia — do you feel like that’s an effective way to conduct diplomacy? And secondly, would you be able to be a little bit more specific about the commitments that you secured today with regards to increasing the financial commitment? Is there an updated timeline? Are there specific countries you could cite? Because a majority of them were already planning to meet that 2 percent threshold by 2024. No, many of them — in fact, Germany was going to be in the year 2028 or ’30. Yeah, I think it’s a very effective way to deal, but I didn’t deal exactly the way you said. I have great respect for Germany. My father is from Germany. Both of my parents are from the EU, despite the fact they don’t treat us well on trade. But I think that will change also, and I think we’ll see that — because on the 25th of July, they’re coming in to start negotiations with me. We’ll see. And if they don’t negotiate in good faith, we’ll do something having to do with all of the millions of cars that are coming into our country and being taxed at a virtually zero level, at a very low level. But, Jeremy, I think it’s been a very effective way of negotiating. But I’m not negotiating; I just want fairness for the United States. We’re paying for far too much of NATO. NATO is very important. But NATO is helping Europe more than it’s helping us. At the same time, it’s very good for us. So we have now got it to a point where people are paying a lot more money, and that’s starting — really, last year. It really had — you were there last year. And last year we had a big impact. Again, we took in $33 billion more. And if you ask Secretary General Stoltenberg, he gives us total credit — meaning me, I guess, in this case, total credit — because I said it was unfair. Now, what has happened is, presidents over many years, from Ronald Reagan to Barack Obama, they came in, they said, “Okay, hey, do the best you can,” and they left. Nobody did anything about it. And it got to a point where the United States was paying for 90 percent of NATO. And that’s not fair. So it’s changed. We had a really good meeting today. We had a great meeting in terms of getting along. I know most of the people in the room because of last year, because of the year and a half that we’ve been in office — year and a half-plus. But we have a great relationship. Everybody in that room, by the time we left, got along. And they agreed to pay more, and they agreed to pay it more quickly. Yeah, go ahead, Phil. Q Thanks, Mr. President. Philip Rucker from the Washington Post. You tweeted yesterday, “What good is NATO?” And you’ve talked about NATO as an alliance that benefits Europe, that defends and protects Europe. Do you see any value of NATO to the United States vis-à-vis Russia? Does it help protect the United States from Russia, in your view? I think it’s another very strong ally, as together it’s much stronger than, obviously, individual countries. I think it’s — the way we have it now, I think it’s a much — I think NATO got — you know what was happening with spending prior to my getting into office. The numbers were going down. Now the numbers have gone up like a rocket ship. The numbers have gone up a lot, and they’ve gone up rapidly. And they’re now going up further. So I think NATO is going to be very, very effective. I’m very impressed with — and really know, and he’s a friend mine — but Secretary General Stoltenberg has done a fantastic job and putting it all together. And we were the ones that really — we gave him an extension of his contract, as you know. I think he’s done a really good job. I think that when I was saying that I am very concerned with the pipeline, I don’t like the pipeline. And when I talk about NATO, I say, how do you have NATO? And then you have somebody paying the people that you’re protecting against. But maybe we’ll get along with the group that we’re protecting against. I think that’s a real possibility. As you know, I’m meeting with President Putin on Monday. And I think we go into that meeting not looking for so much. We want to find out about Syria. We will, of course, ask your favorite question about meddling. I will be asking that question again. But we’ll also be talking about other things. We’ll be talking about Ukraine. Ukraine was here today, by the way. And, you know, it was very interesting to hear what they had to say? Q Excuse me? Q What if he denies it? Well, he may. I mean, look, he may. You know, what am I going to do? He may deny it. I mean, it’s one of those things. All I can do is say, “Did you” and “Don’t do it again.” But he may deny it. You’ll be the first to know. Okay? Yes, go ahead. Q Mr. President, Robert Wall with the Wall Street Journal. Yes. Hi, Robert. Q If the Germans and the Canadians and others don’t come up to 2 percent, what is your fallback position? How will you up the pressure to make them actually? Well, they will. They will. I have no doubt about it. They all made commitments. And they will be up to 2 percent. It will be over a period — a relatively short period of years. Okay? Q Please. Thank you so much. Yes, go ahead. Q Georgian TV . Mr. President, what do you think today, it needs — Georgia more support from NATO? And I wanted to ask about — Georgia? They were here today, representing. Q Yes. And will you talk about Georgia in a meeting with President Putin? Well, they were here. They made a very favorable impression. And we listened to their plight. It’s a tough situation with Georgia. But they made a very fair verbal impression in the room. Okay? Yeah, go ahead. Go. Go. Go ahead. Q She’s already had one. Yeah, you really did. Come on. Go ahead. Go ahead. Q Well, I had a question, as well. But nonetheless, I’ll ask, sir. Will you recognize — Go ahead. Q Will you recognize Russia’s annex — will you recognize Crimea as part of Russia when you meet President — Oh, that’s an interesting question — because long before I got here, President Obama allowed that to happen. That was on his watch, not on my watch. You know, people like to say, “Oh, Crimea.” But the fact is, they built bridges to Crimea. They just opened a big bridge that was started years ago. They built, I think, a submarine port; substantially added billions of dollars. So that was on Barack Obama’s watch. That was not on Trump’s watch. Would I have allowed it to happen? No, I would not have allowed it to happen. But he did allow it to happen, so that was his determination. What will happen with Crimea from this point on? That I can’t tell you. But I’m not happy about Crimea. But again, that was on Barack Obama’s watch, not Trump’s watch. Yeah, go ahead. Sure. Q It’s Jeff Mason from Reuters, Mr. President. Sure. I know, Jeff. Q Regarding your summit with President Putin, will you be raising arms control issues? Yes. Q Would you like to extend New START? And will you raise concerns about violations of the INF Treaty? Yes. Q And as a follow-up to the NATO meeting today, will you suggest to him, or would you consider stopping military exercises in the Baltic States, if that’s something that he requests? Well, perhaps we’ll talk about that. But I will say that we are going to be talking about those three issues and many more. We’ll be talking about it, Jeff. Go ahead. Go ahead. Q We are in the NATO, the quarters — the cost the double before. I would like to know if you are planning to guarantee the taxpayers that the new money that is flowing into NATO will be spent in the best possible way, especially the money coming from country that have several problem with the public finances. Well, the money will be spent properly. And one of the things that we have — we have many wealthy countries with us today, but we have some that aren’t so wealthy. And they did ask if they could buy the military equipment and could I help them out. And we will help them out a little bit. We’re not going to finance it for them, but we’ll make sure that they’re able to get payments and various other things so they can buy. Because the United States makes, by far, the best military equipment in the world. The best jets, the best missiles, the best guns. The best everything — we make, by far. I mean, that’s one thing — I guess I assumed it prior to taking office, but I really learned, since being President, our equipment is so much better than anybody else’s equipment when you look at our companies — Lockheed and Boeing and Grumman. The material — the equipment that we make is so far superior, everybody wants to buy our equipment. In fact, it’s the question, can they make it? Because they are doing very well. Can they make it for so many people? So we are helping some of those countries get on line and buy the best equipment. Yeah, go ahead. Q Hi, I’m Kristin Brown with Fox News. On your upcoming summit with President Putin, did any of your allies here express any specific concerns or talk to you about any messages that they’d like you to take with you when you go to the summit? Yeah. Just the opposite of concern. They actually — and they’ll probably come out with a little bit of an edict — but they actually thanked me for meeting with President Putin. I look forward to the meeting. They thanked me. They thought it was a great thing that I was doing it. And they gave us our best wishes, or their best wishes. Now, with that being said, we’ll see that happens. Just a loose meeting. It’s not going to be big schedule. I don’t think it should take a very long period of time. And we’ll see where it leads. But it could lead to productive — something very productive. And maybe it’s not. But I think meeting with people is great. We had a great meeting with Chairman Kim. And I’ll tell you, Mike Pompeo did a fantastic job. I might ask you to say a few words, Mike, while you’re here. Just one second. Mike, go ahead. I think, just to finish on that, you know, it’s so important. That was an amazing — really, an amazing meeting, I though. And I really think that we established a very good relationship. We’ll see where it all ends. But there have been no missile tests. There have been no research. Where there has been — they have blown up a site; I hear they’re blowing up another site, missile site. They’ve taken down all of the propaganda. In fact, somebody said there’s no more music playing at the border line. You know, the music was going on for many years. They said recently that, “Wow, there’s no more of the heavy music and the propaganda.” They’ve done a lot of things. And we got back our three hostages. So it’s a good process. But the main thing is there have been no rocket launches. There have been no missile tests. There’s been no nuclear tests, no explosions, no nothing, for almost nine months. Okay. Yeah, please. Q Ewen MacAskill from The Guardian. Your trip to the UK, there are lots of protests planned in London and elsewhere. How do you feel about that? I think it’s fine. I mean, I think they like me a lot in the UK. I think they agree with me on immigration. I’m very strong on immigration. I made a point today — I said, you’ve got to stop. You’re ruining your — you’re going to have a lot of problems. You see what’s going on throughout the world with immigration. I probably, at least partially, won an election because of immigration. If you look at Italy — Giuseppe, who I got to know quite well over the last month and a half, he won his election because of strong immigration policies on Italy. I think that a lot of the people in the UK — I think that’s why Brexit happened. Now, I don’t know what’s going on with the negotiation. Who knows. But — and I guess that’s become a very interesting point of contention. I said I’m going to a few hotspots. We have NATO, then we have the UK, and then we have Putin. And I said, Putin may be the easiest of them all. You never know. But I’m going to a pretty hotspot right now, right, with a lot of resignations. But I will say that immigration is a very important thing, and I told them today, the EU — the European Union — better be very careful, because immigration is taking over Europe, and they better be very, very careful. And I said that loud and clear. Yes, go ahead. Q President Trump, Romania. What will you tell President Putin about this summit and about NATO? Well, I think he’s going to see about this summit — this has turned out to be a very successful summit. This is — I think, really, that NATO is more put together right now, is more coordinated. And I think there’s a better spirit for NATO right now than perhaps they’ve ever had. It’s richer than it ever was. The commitments are made at a higher level than they’ve ever been made. And the money, it will be paid out faster — far faster. You know, the 2 percent was a range, a goal. It wasn’t something that they were committed to. Now it’s a commitment. There’s a big difference — the 2 percent number. And that’s why so many people weren’t reaching it or hitting it. It was just sort of like this amorphous number out there. Now it’s a commitment, a real commitment. I think he’s going to see that there’s great unity, great spirit, great esprit de corps. And I think we’re going to have a good meeting. Regardless of that, I think we’re going to have a good meeting. But this was a fantastic two days. This was a really fantastic — it all came together at the end. And, yes, it was a little tough for a little while, but ultimately — you can ask anybody at that meeting — they’re really liking what happened over the last two days. There’s a great, great spirit leaving that room. Yes, sir. Go ahead. Please. Q Yeah. Jonathan Beale from BBC. I just wonder — you think you’re going to get along with President Putin at that meeting. Could you just tell us, why do you think that? Is there something you admire about him? And the second question, because you’re just about to go to the UK, sir — Well, he’s a competitor. He’s been very nice to me the times I’ve met him. I’ve been nice to him. He’s a competitor. You know, somebody was saying, “Is he an enemy?” No, he’s not my enemy. “Is he a friend?” No, I don’t know him well enough. But the couple of times that I’ve gotten to meet him, we got along very well. You saw that. I hope we get along well. I think we get along well. But ultimately, he’s a competitor. He’s representing Russia. I’m representing the United States. So in a sense, we’re competitors. Not a question of friend or enemy. He’s not my enemy. And hopefully, someday, maybe he’ll be a friend. It could happen. But I — I just don’t know him very well. I’ve met him a couple of times. And when I did meet him, most of you people were there. Yes. Q And Brexit — sorry, sir, because you are going to the UK. What will be your message on Brexit? Well, Brexit is a — you know, I’ve been reading a lot about Brexit over the last couple of days, and it seems to be turning a little bit differently where they’re getting at least partially involved back with the European Union. I have no message. It’s not for me to say. I own a lot of property there. I’m going to Scotland while I wait for the meeting. I have Turnberry in Scotland, which is a magical place — one of my favorite places. I’m going there for two days while I wait for the Monday meeting. But it’s not for me to say what they should be doing in the UK. I have great friendships. My mother was born in Scotland. I have great friendships over there. We have a wonderful ambassador — Woody Johnson. And he’s doing — by the way, Woody is doing a great job. But it’s not for me to say. I’d like to see him be able to work it so it could go quickly, whatever they work out. Q Hard Brexit? Is it heartbreaking? Q Hard Brexit. Oh, hard Brexit. I see. I thought you said it was heartbreaking. I said, that might be going a little bit too far, right? Heartbreak. Is it heartbreaking? A lot of things are heartbreaking. No, I would say that Brexit is Brexit. It’s not like — I guess we’ll use the term “hard Brexit.” I assume that’s what you mean. The people voted to break it up, so I would imagine that’s what they’ll do. But maybe they’re taking a little bit of a different route. So I don’t know if that’s what they voted for. I just want the people to be happy. They’re great people. And I do think I have — I’m sure there will be protests, because there are always protests. But I think — there were protests the night of the election, both ways. But in the end, we got 206 electoral — 306 electoral votes. And one state said — you know, it was interesting, one of the states we won, Wisconsin — I didn’t even realize this until fairly recently — that was the one state Ronald Reagan didn’t win when he ran the board his second time. He didn’t win Wisconsin, and we won Wisconsin. So, you know, we had a great night. Protests? There might be protests. But I believe that the people in the UK — Scotland, Ireland. As you know, I have property in Ireland; I have property all over. I think that those people, they like me a lot, and they agree with me on immigration. And I think that’s why you have Brexit in the first place, because of immigration. Yes, ma’am. Yeah, go ahead. Q from Finland. What would be the best deal with Putin when you come to Helsinki? And don’t you think that your hard diplomacy — that you are playing to the same goal that Putin, with your hard diplomacy towards EU and NATO? Well, I can’t tell you what would be the ultimate. What would be the ultimate? Well, let’s see: No more nuclear weapons anywhere in the world would be the ultimate, okay? No more wars, no more problems, no more conflict. Let’s find a cure to every disease known to mankind, or womankind. That would be my ultimate, okay? And we’ll start from there. Okay. Yeah, go ahead. Q from Afghan Service and BBC World Service. So I would like to ask you, Mr. President, that Afghan President is going to be here — He’s here right now. He’s here right now. Q No, is here. And are you going to meet him? Yes. Q And what have you got to say to him? Ghani. Q And when the war is going to end in Afghanistan? Because people are fed up now and they want to know. I agree with that. I very much agree. It’s been going on for a long time. We’ve made a lot of progress, but it’s been going on for a long time. We’ve made a lot of progress in Afghanistan, I will say. Yes, your President is here right now. In fact, he’s in the room. When I’m finished with this, I’m going right back into that room. Q One question, please. Please. Georgia Public Broadcasting. Mr. President, can you tell us what do you think about future membership of Georgia in NATO, please? Well, at a certain point they’ll have a chance. Not right now. They just left the room. But at a certain point, they’ll have a chance. Yes, sir. Go ahead. Q reporter for Kurdistan 24. Are you going to continue to support the Kurdish forces, Peshmerga, in Iraq? Thank you. I think the Kurds are great people. They’re incredible fighters. They’re wonderful, warm, intelligent — allies, in many cases. As you know, it’s different groups of people. But they’re great people. I really do — I believe they’re great people. Yes, go ahead, please. Q Mr. President, working with ARD German TV. You said Putin isn’t an enemy, isn’t a friend; he’s just a competitor. He’s a competitor. Q Do you consider him as a security threat for Europe or to the U.S.? Thank you. Hey, I don’t want him to be. And that’s, I guess, why we have NATO, and that’s why we have a United States that just had the largest military budget ever — $700 billion approved; $716 billion next year. No, I hope that we’ll be able to get along. I’ve said from day one, whether it’s China or Russia — you know, we’re working on trade with China right now, and I don’t say that’s an easy situation, because that’s been years of abuse of the United States by presidents, frankly, that allowed that to happen. So I’ve taken over a lot of bad hands, and I’m fixing each one of them and I’m fixing them well. But China is going to be, I think, very successfully, ultimately, taken care of. I have a great respect for their President, as you know — President Xi. I spent two days there. It was among the most magical two days I’ve ever lived. And I think we’re going to end up doing something very good with China. Right now, we’re in a pretty nasty trade battle, but I think ultimately that will work out. I really think we have a big advantage. You know, we’ve picked up $8 trillion in value, in worth, since I became President. And we’re close to two times the size of China. A lot of people don’t know that. And, you know, we’re going to negotiate a fair deal, if that’s possible. Okay. And Russia — I think getting along with Russia also would be a very good thing. Yes, go ahead. Q Jamal Mousavi from BCC Persian TV. We have seen escalation of tension between you and the Iranians. What is your exit plan, Mr. President? I would say there might be an escalation between us and the Iranians. I agree with that. Q But they are threatening to — By the way, they’re treating us with much more respect right now than they did in the past. And I think — I know they’re having a lot of problems and their economy is collapsing. But I will tell you this: At a certain point, they’re going to call me and they’re going to say, “Let’s make a deal,” and we’ll make a deal. But they are — they’re feeling a lot of pain right now. Yes. Go ahead. Go ahead. Go ahead. Go ahead. Q Mr. President, do we expect the rise of the Russian influence in Macedonia following the starting of the negotiation process, like we’ve seen in Montenegro with alleged coup? And what will NATO and United States do to counter that Russian influence in the Western Balkans? Thank you. We never talk about our future plans. Yes, go ahead, ma’am. Go ahead. Go ahead. Q Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much. My name is Alla Shali from Rudaw TV from Kurdistan Iraq. My question is about the government of Iraq. You know, after two months election, the government in Iraq has not been formed. What’s the role from USA? And you want to talk about Syria with President Putin. Can I have any information about Quds in Syria? Thank you very much. So I hope we get along well with Iraq. We’ve certainly spent a great fortune in Iraq. And many, many lives — thousands and hundreds of thousands of lives, if you think on both sides, which I always think about both sides, not just our side. And they had an election, and I hope we’re going to be able to get along, and we’ll see how that goes. We’ve already been talking to the people that won the election. I was not in favor of that war. I was very much against that war. I never thought it was a good thing. But that’s another deck of cards that I inherited, and we’ll do the best we can with it. I think the election was pretty conclusive. And again, we’ve spoken to them. We’ll see what happens. Yes, sir. Go ahead. Go ahead. Q I’m Asea Atrouz from Assabah Newspaper in Tunisia. I come from a very far country, a small country in Northern Africa, Tunisia. My question, Mr. President — we really admire what you are doing in North Africa and we really wish and hope that something again will be done in the Middle East to avoid more wars and more blood and more killings in the Middle East, with a just peace process that gives everyone its . We’re looking for peace. And Africa, as you know, is on our very strong list. But we’re looking for peace. We want peace all over. We want to solve problems. We’re looking for peace. Africa, right now, has got problems like few people would even understand. They have things going on there that nobody could believe in this room. If you saw some of the things that I see through intelligence, what’s going on in Africa, it is so sad and so vicious and violent. And we want peace. We want peace for Africa. We want peace all over the world. That’s my number-one goal: peace all over the world. And we’re building up a tremendous military, because I really believe, through strength, you get peace. But we’re going to have a military like we’ve never had before. We’ve given out orders for the best fighter jets in the world, the best ships, the best everything. But hopefully we’ll never have to use them. That would be a dream. To buy the best stuff, to have the best stuff, to have the best equipment in the world, and to never have to use it would be a really great part of my dream. Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you. I’m going to be going — leaving in about a half an hour. Thank you. END 12:56 P.M. CEST
Well, it’s going to be an interesting time in the UK, and it’s certainly going to be an interesting time with NATO. NATO has not treated us fairly, but I think we’ll work something out. We pay far too much and they pay far too little. But we will work it out, and all countries will be happy. With the UK, that’s a situation that’s been going on for a long time. So I have NATO, I have the UK, which is in somewhat turmoil, and I have Putin. Frankly, Putin may be the easiest of them all. Who would think? Who would think? But the UK certainly has a — they have a lot of things going on. Q Have you talked with Theresa May since Boris ? I have not. No, I have not. But Boris Johnson is a friend of mine. He’s been very, very nice to me and very supportive. And maybe we’ll speak to him when I get over there. I like Boris Johnson. I’ve always liked him. Q But should Theresa May remain in power? Well, that’s up to the people. I get along with her very well. I have a very good relationship. That’s certainly up to the people, not up to me. Q On NATO, Donald Tusk, about half an hour ago, said that you should appreciate America’s allies because you don’t have very many. What do you say to — Well, we do have a lot of allies, but we cannot be taken advantage of. We’re being taken advantage of by the European Union. We lost $151 billion last year on trade. And on top of that, we spend at least 70 percent for NATO. And, frankly, it helps them a lot more than it helps us. So we’ll see what happens. We have a long, beautiful week. I will say also, last night was an incredible evening. Brett Kavanaugh has gotten rave reviews — rave reviews — actually, from both sides. And I think it’s going to be a beautiful thing to watch over the next month. But he has gotten rave reviews. Q Vladimir Putin friend or foe? I really can’t say right now. As far as I’m concerned, a competitor. A competitor. I think that getting along with Russia, getting along with China, getting along with others is a good thing, not a bad thing. I’ve said that many times for many years. So we’ll see. We’re meeting with Vladimir Putin on Monday. We’ll see how that goes. Q They didn’t give it. I have it for him. They didn’t give it. But it will be given at a certain period. I actually do — I actually do have a little gift for him, but you’ll find out what that gift is when I give it. Q No, I haven’t. I really haven’t. We haven’t discussed it. Q Well, I have a solution: Tell people not to come to our country illegally. That’s the solution. Don’t come to our country illegally. Come like other people do; come legally. Q I’m saying this, very simply: We have laws. We have borders. Don’t come to our country illegally. It’s not a good thing. And as far as ICE is concerned, the people that are fighting ICE, it’s a disgrace. These people go into harm’s way. There is nobody under greater danger than the people from ICE. What they do to MS-13 and everything else. So we ought to support ICE, not do what the Democrats are doing. Democrats want open borders, and they don’t mind crime. We want no crime, and we want borders where borders mean something. And remember this: Without borders, you do not have a country. Thank you, everybody. END 7:28 A.M. EDT
The meeting went very well. We’ll be meeting on June 12th in Singapore. It went very well. It’s really a get-to-know-you kind of a situation. Mike has spent two days doing this. We’ve gotten to know their people very well. And we will — you people are going to have to travel because you’ll be in Singapore on June 12th. And I think it’ll be a process. It’s not — I never said it goes in one meeting. I think it’s going to be a process. But the relationships are building, and that’s a very positive thing. Q Mr. President, what’s your sense of what the North Koreans are willing to do on the issue of denuclearization? Are they looking at it all at once? Well, I think they want to do that. I know they want to do that. They want other things along the line. They want to develop as a country. That’s going to happen. I have no doubt. Japan is involved, as you know. And South Korea is very much involved. We’re involved in terms of getting everything. Everybody wants the United States. So we’re going to help in the process very much. Without us, it wouldn’t happen. But I think that you see a lot of very positive things, including with China. I think you see a lot of very positive things happening with President Xi, who has helped me quite a bit with this. So we’ll see where it leads. But we’re going to be — June 12th, we’ll be in Singapore. It will be a beginning. I don’t say and I’ve never said it happens in one meeting. You’re talking about years of hostility; years of problems; years of, really, hatred between so many different nations. But I think you’re going to have a very positive result in the end. Not from one meeting, but you’re going to have a very positive — Q You appeared to question their sincerity in your letter to Kim Jong Un last week. Have they gone far enough now? Do you believe they’re sincere? My letter was a response to their letter. The media forgot that. You know, the media said, “Oh, you had a meeting, then you cancelled.” I didn’t cancel the meeting. I cancelled it in response to a very tough statement. And I think we’re over that — totally over that. And now we’re going to deal, and we’re going to really start a process. We’re meeting with the Chairman on June 12th. And I think it’s probably going to be a very successful — ultimately, a successful process. We’ll see. Remember what I say: We will see what we will see. But I think it’s going to be a process that we deserve to have. I mean, we really deserve — they want it. We think it’s important. And I think we would be making a big mistake if we didn’t have it. I think we’re going to have a relationship, and it will start on June 12th. Q What can you get done in one meeting? What can you get done on June 12th? And why do you think they’re open to denuclearization? Well, this was a very good meeting. Don’t forget, this was a meeting where a letter was given to me by Kim Jong Un, and that letter was a very nice letter. Oh, would you like to see what was in that letter? Would you like it? Q Can you tell us? How much? How much? How much? Q Can you just give us a flavor of what the letter said? Ah, it was a very interesting letter. And at some point I may be — it may be appropriate, and maybe I’ll be able to give it to you. Maybe you’ll be able to see it, and maybe fairly soon. But really, this was a letter presentation that ended up being a two-hour conversation. Q Why did it end up going so long, sir? Because we found the whole subject matter very interesting. And because I really think they want to do something. And if it’s possible, so do we. Q What did he ask you ? I think all we’re going to do is be there on June 12th, and we’re going to see what happens. Mike has been dealing very well. They have a very good relationship with Mike Pompeo, our Secretary of State. It was actually very interesting because this was literally going to be the delivery of a letter, and it ended up being a two-hour conversation with the second most powerful man in North Korea. Q Did he ask you anything about troop levels in South Korea? We talked about almost everything. We talked about a lot. And we talked about sanctions. Q with Kim Jong Un yet? I don’t want to say that. Q Did they agree to CVID, sir? We talked about about a lot of things. We really did. But the big deal will be on June 12th. And again, it’s a process. It doesn’t go — we’re not going to sign a — we’re not going to go in and sign something on June 12th and we never were. We’re going to start a process. And I told them today, “Take your time. We can go fast. We can go slowly.” But I think they’d like to see something happen. And if we can work that out, that will be good. But the process will begin on June 12th in Singapore. Q Do you believe Kim is committed to denuclearization? Yeah, I do think so. He’d like to see it happen. He wants to be careful. He wants to be, you know — he’s not going to run and do things. But I told him, to be honest with you, look, we have sanctions on; they’re very powerful sanctions. We would not take sanctions off unless they did that. But the sanctions are very powerful. You’ve seen how powerful in other ways. You’re going to see how powerful sanctions are when it comes to Iran. You see what that’s doing to Iran. So we have sanctions on. And at a certain point, I’ll tell you what, I look forward to the day when I can take the sanctions off of North Korea. Q Did you talk about human rights today? And do you expect to talk about it on — We did not talk about human rights, no. Q Do you expect to talk about it on June 12th? Could be. Yeah. Could be. I think we probably will, and maybe in great detail. We did not talk about human rights. Q Did you talk about sanctions? Did they ask you to make any changes? Yeah, we did. We talked about it. Yes, they asked about sanctions. Q Is maximum pressure over, sir? Excuse me? Q Is maximum pressure over, sir? It’s going to remain what it is now. I don’t even want to use the term “maximum pressure” anymore because I don’t want to use that term because we’re getting along. You see the relationship. We’re getting along. So it’s not a question of maximum pressure. It’s staying essentially the way it is. At some point, hopefully, a deal — for the good of millions of people, a deal will be worked out. Q Mr. President, how would you describe the state of relations now between the United States and North Korea after your meetings today? Well, I think they’re okay. I mean, I think they’re good. Is it like the relationships we have with a couple of other countries? Probably not. Right? But I think the relationship we have right now with North Korea is as good as it’s been in a long time. They had no relationship under the previous administration. There was nothing. It was nothing. They were explaining, it was just a “nothing.” Nothing was done. Hey, folks, this should not be up to me. This should have been handled a long time ago. This got to a very critical point. This should have been handled many years ago — not only by President Obama, but by other Presidents that preceded me. This shouldn’t be done now, this should have been done years ago. Q Do you plan to offer the North Koreans economic aid at the June 12th summit? Well, what’s going to happen is South Korea will do that. No, I don’t think the United States is going to have to spend. I think South Korea will do it. I think China — I think, frankly, China will help out. I think that Japan will help out. No, I don’t see the United States spending a lot of money. You know, we have three hostages. How much money did I spend for the hostages? And, look, we’re very far away. We are very far away. Those places are very close. It’s their neighborhood. We’re thousands — we’re 6,000 miles away. So I’ve already told South Korea, I said, “You know, you’re going to have to get ready.” And Japan, also. And I think they really want to see something great happen. Japan does, South Korea does, and I think China does. But that’s their neighborhood; it’s not our neighborhood. Q Mr. President, yesterday you were concerned about the meeting that Lavrov was having with Kim Jong Un. Yeah, I didn’t like it. Q Where are you on that today? I didn’t like it, but it could be very positive, too. I didn’t like the Russian meeting yesterday. I said, “What’s the purpose of that?” But, it could be a positive meeting. If it’s a positive meeting, I love it. If it’s a negative meeting, I’m not happy. And it could very well be a positive meeting. Q Are you willing to end the South Korean War on June 12th, during the summit? Well, we could — that could happen. That could happen. We talked about it. Q Tell us more. We talked about ending the war. And you know, this war has been going on — it’s got to be the longest war — almost 70 years, right? And there is a possibility of something like that. That’s more of a signing of a document that it’s very important in one way. Historically, it’s very important. But we’ll see. And we did discuss that — the ending of the Korean War. Can you believe that we’re talking about the ending of the Korean War? You’re talking about 70 years. Q Has that document been prepared? Or is it being prepared? Well, we’re going to discuss it prior to the meeting. That’s something that could come out of the meeting. I think, really, there’s something that maybe could come out of the meeting. Q Where’s China on that? I think China would like to see a very positive result. I have a lot of good relations with, as you know, Chairman Xi. He’s a great — he’s really a very wonderful guy. He’s a man that loves China. However, he wants to do what’s best for China. I think China and President Xi would love to see something happen here. Q When you say you’re going to guarantee Kim’s security, and the North Korean regime’s security, how will you do that? How would the United States do that? Well, we’re going to make sure it’s secure. We’re going to make sure when this is over, it’s over. It’s not going to be starting up again. And they have a potential to be a great country. And I think South Korea is going to help a lot. Japan is going to help a lot. I think China is going to help a lot. Q How do you envision that working, though? Well, that’s a very complicated question, frankly, but you’ll see that over a period of time. Q When you gave your speech in Seoul last November, you talked about the bright promise if North Korea should choose to join the company of nations. But if you leave Kim in place, can you really have a transformation like that? I really think you can. And I think it’s going to be very successful. They’re incredible people. I think it’s going to be a very great success. So we’ll see what happens. But we’ll see you — we will see you on June 12th, but I’m sure we’ll see you a little bit before that. In the meantime, how is Sarah doing? Okay? Q Have you discussed dates for a second or a third summit? The — which one? Q Did you discuss dates for a second or a third meeting? I told them, I think that you’re going to have, probably, others. Hey, wouldn’t it be wonderful if we walked out and everything was settled all of a sudden from sitting down for a couple of hours? No, I don’t see that happening. But I see over a period of time. And frankly, I said, “Take your time. Take your time. It’s going to remain as is, but take your time.” One thing I did do, and it was very important, we had hundreds of new sanctions ready to go on. And he did not — the director did not ask, but I said I’m not going to put them on until such time as the talks break down. We have very significant sanctions on now. But we had hundreds — we have hundreds that are ready to go. But I said, “I’m not going to.” But why would I do that when we’re talking so nicely? Q Is this first meeting more of a personal diplomacy, part of your “getting to know you” — I think it’s a “getting to know you” meeting, plus. And that can be a very positive thing. Q Mr. President, what was your response to the letter? Did you send anything back? No, I didn’t. I haven’t seen the letter yet. I purposely didn’t open the letter. I haven’t opened it. I didn’t open it in front of the director. I said, “Would you want me to open it?” He said, “You can read it later.” I may be in for a big surprise, folks. So long, everybody. Q What’s the next move on NAFTA, sir? Well, NAFTA — look, it’s been a terrible deal for the United States. People are starting to see it. We lose over $100 billion a year with Mexico. We lose many, many, many billions of dollars with Canada. Canada doesn’t take — I mean, they’re very restrictive as to taking our agricultural product, and other things. And, you know, all of these countries, including the European Union, they charge five times the tariff. We don’t charge tariffs, essentially. They charge five times what we charge for tariffs. And I believe in the word “reciprocal.” You’re going to charge five times? We’re going to charge five times. That hasn’t been done. No other President ever brought it up. And it’s going to be done now. So we’re negotiating numerous deals. We’re talking about NAFTA. To be honest with you, I wouldn’t see NAFTA — I wouldn’t mind seeing NAFTA, where you’d go by a different name, where you make a separate deal with Canada and a separate deal with Mexico because you’re talking about a very different two countries. But I wouldn’t mind seeing a separate deal with Canada, where you have one type of product, so to speak, and a separate deal with Mexico. These are two very difficult countries. It’s been a lousy deal for the United States from day one. We lose a lot of money with Canada, and we lose a fortune with Mexico. And it’s not going to happen like that anymore. I mean, Mexico has taken our car companies, a big percentage of them. And we can’t do that. And, look, the American worker agrees with me. Obviously, the stock market agrees because when you look at what’s going on with the stocks, they’re starting to see I’m right. But if you take the European Union and you see the kind of tariff they charge, and then we don’t, that’s called, “not fair trade.” I want fair trade. I like free trade, but I want fair trade. At a minimum, I want fair trade. And we’re going to have it for our workers and for our companies. And you know what? The other side understands it. To be honest with you, they cannot believe that they’ve gotten away with this for so many decades. Q Canada, the UK, some of our closest allies are complaining long and loud about these new tariffs. What do you say to them? They’re our allies but they take advantage of us economically. And so I agree — I love Canada. I love Mexico. I love them. But Mexico is making over $100 billion a year and they’re not helping us with our border because they have strong laws and we have horrible laws. We have horrible border laws. They have strong — they could solve our border problem if they wanted, but they don’t want to. And when they want to, then I’ll be happy. But I think we have a good chance of doing some great trade deals, and we’ll make America great again. Right? That’s what we’re doing. But America has picked up — we’ve made about $8 trillion in value since — you know, we’re double the size of the economy of China. We’ve picked up a lot of value, a lot of wealth, since I’ve been President. More than $8 trillion. And that’s a very low number because we’re talking stock market wealth. I’m talking about beyond that. Our companies are doing great, we’re doing great, our military is rebuilding. We have a lot of great things going. We’re going to straighten out trade. The trade is going to be easy. And other countries understand. You know, when I talk to them, they look at me — and this is in closed doors, not for you people — and they essentially say, “We can’t believe we’ve gotten away with this for so long.” It’s like, you guys can’t believe you’ve gotten away with it for so long. Q I want everyone to watch. Because I’ll tell you what, we have such a great country. Right now, at this level, I don’t think we’ve ever been, on an economic scale — you look at the numbers: 3.8 percent. We have the lowest numbers of unemployment that we’ve had — is it 50 years? I think it’s 50. Fifty years, right? So we have the best — we have some of the best economic numbers we’ve ever had as a nation. And that goes a long way. And we’re building something very special. Just remember, we’re twice the size — our economy — twice the size of China. Good meeting today. I think it’s a great start. Q What’s on the agenda for Camp David? Just a little relaxation and a lot of work. We have a lot of calls set up. I’m calling a lot of the foreign leaders. I’m negotiating trade deals. I’m working. I’m working hard for you people. Have a good time. Thank you. END 2:56 P.M. EDT
Good morning. I just want to tell you we’re doing very well with North Korea. Our Secretary of State has had very good meetings. He’s meeting again today. I believe they’ll be coming down to Washington on Friday. And a letter is going to be delivered to me from Kim Jong Un. So I look forward to seeing what’s in the letter. But it’s very important to them. So they’ll be, probably, coming down to Washington, D.C. on Friday for the delivery of a letter. I look forward to that. Other than that, the economy is good. Stock market is up. Lot of jobs. Best unemployment we’ve had in many, many decades, actually. And we’re going to Dallas. We’re going to Houston. And we’re going to have a little fun today. Thank you very much. Q What’s the letter going to say, sir? I don’t know. I don’t know. But if you know, Steve, let me know. Q Is there some sort of deal? Is there a deal taking shape? I think it will be very positive. I think it will be very positive. The meetings have been very positive. Q Is an agreement taking shape? We’ll see what happens. It’s a process. It’s all a process. We’ll see. And hopefully we’ll have a meeting on the 12th. That’s going along very well, but I want it to be meaningful. It doesn’t mean it gets all done at one meeting; maybe you have to have a second or a third. And maybe we’ll have none. But it’s in good hands, that I can tell you. You know that, actually. Thank you. Thank you. END 9:07 A.M. EDT
Well, thank you very much, everybody. This is a great honor tonight. It is very special. We have, as you know, Josh Holt and his wife Thamy. And they came back from a very tough ordeal in a Venezuelan prison. Almost two years, Josh. And, you know, amazing that you were able to take it. Your daughter Marian is here, and your parents, Jason and Laurie. And you went through a lot. And you were in there fighting all the way. And I want to thank Bob Corker. Great job you did over there. Great job. And I want to thank Mike Lee. And, Mia, you’ve been — every time I’d see Mia, she’d talk about you, Josh. She’d say, “What about Josh?” I said, “What about something else? Can we talk about something else?” She was always doing it. And Orrin Hatch is a legend, as you know. He’s a legend in the Senate and in this country. And, Orrin, you were great. So, Bob, Mike, Mia, Orrin — I want to thank you very much. So we’ve had 17 prisoners released during the Trump administration. Most people don’t know that. You remember Aya. We called the President of Egypt, and he released her. She was there for a long time — three years. And the previous administration was unable to get her out. A fantastic young woman. And she was released. As you know, in North Korea, we just had a very great success. We have three wonderful people — Americans — that were released just recently. And they’re now home, safe with their families. And you were a tough one, I have to tell you. That was a tough situation. But we’ve had 17 released, and we’re very proud of that record. Very proud. And we have others coming. We’re in the midst of some very big negotiations to get others out. In most cases, they’re Americans, but we can try and help other countries too, where there’s injustice. So we’ve been working very hard on it. But I just want to welcome you to the Oval Office, welcome you to the White House. It’s, really, very special to have you both. You’ve gone through a lot. You’ve gone through a lot — more than most people could endure. I want to thank your parents for being such loving parents. You were really very, very special. You were fighting all the way. There was not a day that — there wasn’t an hour or a minute that you weren’t thinking about this man and calling everybody, and letting us know. And we are all, as a group, very happy. The State Department has been fantastic. Where are my guys from the State Department? Where are they? We have John — John Sullivan. You guys were really fantastic. Look at all those people that work at the State Department. You’re probably surprised to see that. But maybe I’d like to ask the parents, your great parents, if you have something to say before — I’d like to get to the senators, and I’d like to get to you, Mia, and ask you also. But could I start with the parents? I’ve never seen Mia cry before. That’s very nice. Pop, do you want to say something? That’s good. That’s very smart. You’re smart. Josh, would you like to say something? You’ve been very brave, actually. You’ve been incredibly brave. We saw what was happening inside of that prison. So you really have been very, very brave. Bob Corker, would you like to say something? Great job. Where’s Caleb? Caleb, are you back there? Come on over here, Caleb. Fantastic. Fantastic job. That is really great. What happened? Why did they do that? Probably the only time that anybody was ever happy that there was a bad instrument on an airplane. That was a better alternative than going back. That’s great. That’s really great. And, you know, we have Pastor Brunson, a wonderful Christian pastor, and he’s right now in Turkey. He’s been there a long time. And they say he’s a spy, but he’s not a spy. And we’re going to all work, and we’ve been working for his release. He’s having a hard time. There’s a trial going on, but the trial is not so much of a trial. And we’re talking to the folks in Turkey about doing something about it. But, Pastor Brunson — I hope you can hear us — we’ll be helping you at some point. We’ve been working on it for a while. He’s been there a long time, and he’s a totally innocent man. Mike Lee, would you like to say something? Very good. Oh, you understood that beautifully. That’s very good. Good job. Good job. Orrin Hatch, Senator, spectacular man — please. Very early. Thank you very much. That’s very nice. I appreciate it. And you’ve all been very supportive, but I really appreciate that. That’s very nice. I thank you very much. Thank you. Mia? That’s very nice. Thank you very much, Mia. It is true, though. Every time I’d see Mia, I’d say, “Look, don’t mention the name ‘Joshua Holt’. We’re working. We’re doing it.” But she didn’t forget. She was out there pitching, as was Bob, as was Mike, as was Orrin. I mean, we really had a great team. That’s a strong nucleus right there, but we had a great team. Great job. I just want to mention, we’re doing very well in terms of the summit with North Korea. It looks like it’s going along very well. As you know, there are meetings going on as we speak, in a certain location, which I won’t name. But you’d like the location; it’s not so far away from here. And I think there’s a lot of goodwill. I think people want to see if we can get the meeting and get something done. If we got that done, and if we can be successful in the denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula, it would be a great thing for North Korea, it would be a great thing for South Korea. It would be great for Japan and great for the world; great for the United States, great for China. A lot of people are working on it. It’s moving along very nicely. So we’re looking at June 12th in Singapore. That hasn’t changed. And it’s moving along pretty well. So we’ll see what happens. Thank you all very much. We appreciate it. Congratulations. Q Have you heard from Kim? Q Was anything exchanged? Sanctions relief? Any promises? Q Have you heard about the talks between Moon and Kim? Yes. Those talks have gone very well. Q Talks have gone well? They’ve gone very well. We’re fully abreast. Q Have you spoken with Kim? The talks have gone very, very well. Q Have you communicated directly with him? I’d rather not say. But the talks have gone very well. Thank you very much, everybody. END 8:56 P.M. EDT
This is a great honor. Hopefully everything is going to work out at the highest level. We want to thank Kim Jong-un, who really was excellent to these three incredible people. They are really three incredible people. And the fact that we were able to get them out so soon was really a tribute to a lot of things, including a certain process that’s taking place right now. And that process is very important. So we will see what happens. We have a meeting scheduled in a very short period of time. You’ll be hearing about it soon. We have the location set. And we will see if we can do something that people did not think was going to happen for many, many years, and a lot of bad things could have happened in between. So I just want to say this is a special night for these three really great people. And congratulations on being in this country. Thank you. Q How does it feel to be home? How does it feel to be home? MR. KIM DONG- How were you treated? You have to give them the answer. MR. KIM DONG- My proudest achievement will be — this is a part of it — but will be when we denuclearize that entire peninsula. This is what people have been waiting for for a long time. Nobody thought we could be on this track in terms of speed. So I’m very honored to have helped the three folks. They’re great people. You know, I got to speak to them on the plane. These are great people; they’ve been through a lot. But it’s a great honor. But the true honor is going to be if we have a victory in getting rid of nuclear weapons. Q Does tonight change how you will approach your meeting with Kim Jong-un? No, not at all. We very much appreciate that he allowed them to go before the meeting. It was sort of understood that we’d be able to get these three terrific people during the meeting and bring them home after the meeting. And he was nice in letting them go before the meeting. I mean, frankly, we didn’t think this was going to happen, and it did. So you could say we’re a little bit — it was a very important thing to all of us to be able to get these three great people out. And I must tell you, I want to pay my warmest respects to the parents of Otto Warmbier, who was a great young man who really suffered. And his parents have become friends of ours. They are spectacular people. And I just want to pay my respects. I actually called them the other day, and Mike called them, also — Mike Pence. And they are really incredible people. Q I think our Secretary of State, despite the fact that the New York Times said he was missing — he was in North Korea — but I think our Secretary of State has done a fantastic job. Mike, did you know that you were missing? They couldn’t find you. They couldn’t find him. They couldn’t find him because he was in North Korea. You know, it’s — Q Have you spoken with Kim Jong-un ? I don’t want to comment on whether or not I spoke to him. Q President Trump, is this enough to tell you that Kim Jong-un is an honest broker? Or was this just to get to the table? Well, we’re starting off on a new footing. This is a wonderful thing that he released the folks early. That was a big thing. Very important to me. And I really think we have a very good chance of doing something very meaningful. And if anybody would have said that 5 years ago, 10 years ago, even a year ago, you would have said that’s not possible. So a lot — I will say this: A lot of very good things have happened. Q Say it? Q Why Kim decided to free these prisoners now? I really think he wants to do something. I think he did this because I really think he wants to do something and bring that country into the real world. I really believe that, Jon. And I think — I think that we’re going to have a success. I think this will be a very big success. It’s never been taken this far. There’s never been a relationship like this. And we’re starting from here. But I really think a lot of progress has been made. And we’ll see what happens. We’re talking about a few weeks. I guess many of you will be with us. But some great things can happen, and that’s what we hope. So I want to thank you all. It’s very early in the morning. I think you probably broke the all-time, in history, television rating for three o’clock in the morning — that I would say. But I want to just congratulate. These are three great people, and congratulations. Thank you, everybody. Thank you. Q Do you want to visit North Korea one day? It could happen. END 3:10 A.M. EDT
My fellow Americans: Today, I want to update the world on our efforts to prevent Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon. The Iranian regime is the leading state sponsor of terror. It exports dangerous missiles, fuels conflicts across the Middle East, and supports terrorist proxies and militias such as Hezbollah, Hamas, the Taliban, and al Qaeda. Over the years, Iran and its proxies have bombed American embassies and military installations, murdered hundreds of American servicemembers, and kidnapped, imprisoned, and tortured American citizens. The Iranian regime has funded its long reign of chaos and terror by plundering the wealth of its own people. No action taken by the regime has been more dangerous than its pursuit of nuclear weapons and the means of delivering them. In 2015, the previous administration joined with other nations in a deal regarding Iran’s nuclear program. This agreement was known as the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, or JCPOA. In theory, the so-called “Iran deal” was supposed to protect the United States and our allies from the lunacy of an Iranian nuclear bomb, a weapon that will only endanger the survival of the Iranian regime. In fact, the deal allowed Iran to continue enriching uranium and, over time, reach the brink of a nuclear breakout. The deal lifted crippling economic sanctions on Iran in exchange for very weak limits on the regime’s nuclear activity, and no limits at all on its other malign behavior, including its sinister activities in Syria, Yemen, and other places all around the world. In other words, at the point when the United States had maximum leverage, this disastrous deal gave this regime — and it’s a regime of great terror — many billions of dollars, some of it in actual cash — a great embarrassment to me as a citizen and to all citizens of the United States. A constructive deal could easily have been struck at the time, but it wasn’t. At the heart of the Iran deal was a giant fiction that a murderous regime desired only a peaceful nuclear energy program. Today, we have definitive proof that this Iranian promise was a lie. Last week, Israel published intelligence documents long concealed by Iran, conclusively showing the Iranian regime and its history of pursuing nuclear weapons. The fact is this was a horrible, one-sided deal that should have never, ever been made. It didn’t bring calm, it didn’t bring peace, and it never will. In the years since the deal was reached, Iran’s military budget has grown by almost 40 percent, while its economy is doing very badly. After the sanctions were lifted, the dictatorship used its new funds to build nuclear-capable missiles, support terrorism, and cause havoc throughout the Middle East and beyond. The agreement was so poorly negotiated that even if Iran fully complies, the regime can still be on the verge of a nuclear breakout in just a short period of time. The deal’s sunset provisions are totally unacceptable. If I allowed this deal to stand, there would soon be a nuclear arms race in the Middle East. Everyone would want their weapons ready by the time Iran had theirs. Making matters worse, the deal’s inspection provisions lack adequate mechanisms to prevent, detect, and punish cheating, and don’t even have the unqualified right to inspect many important locations, including military facilities. Not only does the deal fail to halt Iran’s nuclear ambitions, but it also fails to address the regime’s development of ballistic missiles that could deliver nuclear warheads. Finally, the deal does nothing to constrain Iran’s destabilizing activities, including its support for terrorism. Since the agreement, Iran’s bloody ambitions have grown only more brazen. In light of these glaring flaws, I announced last October that the Iran deal must either be renegotiated or terminated. Three months later, on January 12th, I repeated these conditions. I made clear that if the deal could not be fixed, the United States would no longer be a party to the agreement. Over the past few months, we have engaged extensively with our allies and partners around the world, including France, Germany, and the United Kingdom. We have also consulted with our friends from across the Middle East. We are unified in our understanding of the threat and in our conviction that Iran must never acquire a nuclear weapon. After these consultations, it is clear to me that we cannot prevent an Iranian nuclear bomb under the decaying and rotten structure of the current agreement. The Iran deal is defective at its core. If we do nothing, we know exactly what will happen. In just a short period of time, the world’s leading state sponsor of terror will be on the cusp of acquiring the world’s most dangerous weapons. Therefore, I am announcing today that the United States will withdraw from the Iran nuclear deal. In a few moments, I will sign a presidential memorandum to begin reinstating U.S. nuclear sanctions on the Iranian regime. We will be instituting the highest level of economic sanction. Any nation that helps Iran in its quest for nuclear weapons could also be strongly sanctioned by the United States. America will not be held hostage to nuclear blackmail. We will not allow American cities to be threatened with destruction. And we will not allow a regime that chants “Death to America” to gain access to the most deadly weapons on Earth. Today’s action sends a critical message: The United States no longer makes empty threats. When I make promises, I keep them. In fact, at this very moment, Secretary Pompeo is on his way to North Korea in preparation for my upcoming meeting with Kim Jong-un. Plans are being made. Relationships are building. Hopefully, a deal will happen and, with the help of China, South Korea, and Japan, a future of great prosperity and security can be achieved for everyone. As we exit the Iran deal, we will be working with our allies to find a real, comprehensive, and lasting solution to the Iranian nuclear threat. This will include efforts to eliminate the threat of Iran’s ballistic missile program; to stop its terrorist activities worldwide; and to block its menacing activity across the Middle East. In the meantime, powerful sanctions will go into full effect. If the regime continues its nuclear aspirations, it will have bigger problems than it has ever had before. Finally, I want to deliver a message to the long-suffering people of Iran: The people of America stand with you. It has now been almost 40 years since this dictatorship seized power and took a proud nation hostage. Most of Iran’s 80 million citizens have sadly never known an Iran that prospered in peace with its neighbors and commanded the admiration of the world. But the future of Iran belongs to its people. They are the rightful heirs to a rich culture and an ancient land. And they deserve a nation that does justice to their dreams, honor to their history, and glory to God. Iran’s leaders will naturally say that they refuse to negotiate a new deal; they refuse. And that’s fine. I’d probably say the same thing if I was in their position. But the fact is they are going to want to make a new and lasting deal, one that benefits all of Iran and the Iranian people. When they do, I am ready, willing, and able. Great things can happen for Iran, and great things can happen for the peace and stability that we all want in the Middle East. There has been enough suffering, death, and destruction. Let it end now. Thank you. God bless you. Thank you. Q Mr. President, how does this make America safer? How does this make America safer? Thank you very much. This will make America much safer. Thank you very much. Q Is Secretary Pompeo bringing the detainees home? Thank you. Secretary Pompeo is, right now, going to North Korea. He will be there very shortly in a matter of virtual — probably an hour. He’s got meetings set up. We have our meeting scheduled. We have our meeting set. The location is picked — the time and the date. Everything is picked. And we look forward to having a very great success. We think relationships are building with North Korea. We’ll see how it all works out. Maybe it will, maybe it won’t. But it can be a great thing for North Korea, South Korea, Japan and the entire world. We hope it all works out. Thank you very much. Q Are the Americans being freed? Q Are the Americans coming home, Mr. President? We’ll all soon be finding out. We will soon be finding out. It would be a great thing if they are. We’ll soon be finding out. Thank you very much. END 2:25 P.M. EDT
I tell you what — Rudy is a great guy, but he just started a day ago. But he really has his heart into it. He’s working hard. He’s learning the subject matter. And he’s going to be issuing a statement too. But he is a great guy. He knows it’s a witch hunt. That’s what he knows. He’s seen a lot of them. And he said he’s never seen anything so horrible. As an example, 33,000 emails requested by Congress with a subpoena, and they get burned, they get deleted. And nobody says anything. Give me a break. So Rudy knows it’s a witch hunt. He started yesterday. He’ll get his facts straight. He’s a great guy. But what he does is he feels it’s a very bad thing for our country, and he happens to be right. Q When did you find out what the retainer was being spent on? Well, you’re going to find out, because we’re going to give a full list. And people know. And virtually everything said has been said incorrectly, and it’s been said wrong, or it’s been covered wrong by the press — just like NBC and ABC yesterday covered the story wrong. But you’ll be finding out. It’s very — it’s actually — Q Mr. President, are you — Wait a minute. It’s actually very simple. It’s actually very simple. But there has been a lot of misinformation, really. People wanting to say — and I say, you know what, learn before you speak. It’s a lot easier. Q Mr. President, when are these Americans going to be released from North Korea? We’re having very substantive talks with North Korea. And a lot of things have already happened with respect to the hostages. And I think you’re going to see very good things. As I said yesterday, stayed tuned. I think you’re going to be seeing very, very good things. And also, the trip is being scheduled. We now have a date and we have a location. We’ll be announcing it soon. Q Mr. President, have you changed your mind at all about being willing to sit with Robert Mueller? Well, the problem with sitting is this: You have a group of investigators, and they say that I am not a target. And I’m not a target. But you have a group of investigators that are all Democrats. In some cases, they went to the Hillary Clinton celebration that turned out to be a funeral. So you have all these investigators; they’re Democrats. In all fairness, Bob Mueller worked for Obama for eight years. If you look at the statements that were made, if you take a look, as an example, at the Rod Rosenstein letter to me, prior to the firing of James Comey, just read it; put it in the air. Your viewers don’t know about it. Put that letter on the air. It very much speaks very loudly, and that’s just one thing. So I would say this: If I could be — I would love to speak. I would love to. Nobody wants to speak more than me — in fact, against my lawyers, because most lawyers, they never speak on anything. I would love to speak, because we’ve done nothing wrong. There was no collusion with the Russians. There was nothing. There was no obstruction. You know, very funny — if you fight back, because you people say something wrong, or they say something wrong, or they leak, which they’ve been doing; if you fight back, they say, oh, that’s obstruction of justice. If somebody says something wrong, and you fight back, they say that’s obstruction of justice. It’s nonsense. So let me just — Q Are you — Wait, wait. Let me just tell you. So I would love to speak. I would love to go. Nothing I want to do more, because we did nothing wrong. We ran a great campaign. We won easily. We won that easily: 306 to — I think, it was 223. We won it easily. That was a great victory. That was a great day for this country. We just had new jobs numbers out. You saw we broke 4 — 3.9 percent. I would love to go. I would love to speak. But I have to find that we’re going to be fairly. Q Are you sure — Wait, wait. I have to find that we’re going to be treated fairly, because everybody sees it now, and it is a pure witch hunt. Right now, it’s a pure witch hunt. Why don’t we have Republicans looking also? Why aren’t we having Republican people doing what all these Democrats are doing? It is a very unfair thing. If I thought it was fair, I would override my lawyer. Q the jobs report today? I thought the jobs report was very good. The big thing to me was cracking four. That hasn’t been done in a long time; you’ll tell me how long. But it hasn’t been done in a long time. We’ll full employment. We’re doing great. The stock market is doing — I guess it’s up 35 percent since the election. And now I think, really, they’re waiting to see what’s going to happen on trade, because we’re going to have some incredible trade deals announced. My people are coming back right now from China, and we will be doing something, one way or the other, with respect to what’s happening in China. And let me say this: I have great respect for President Xi. That’s why we’re being so nice. And we have a great relationship. But we have to bring fairness into trade between the U.S. and China. And we’ll do it. END 10:05 A.M. EDT
Thank you very much, everybody. Prime Minister Abe and I have spent a lot of time today, and we really spent a lot of time since I got elected. And right from the beginning we hit it off. The relationship is a very good one. We talked North Korea. Covered that yesterday, a little bit today. We’re talking military and, of course, we’re talking trade. What we’re going to be doing now mostly is trade. As the Prime Minister knows, they’ve done very well with the United States. We have a very big deficit, and we’re going to weed that down and hopefully get a balance at some point in the not-too-distant future. But we have a massive deficit with Japan. We will, I believe, at the end of a fairly short period of time, be able to do certain things. I know they’re ordering large numbers of airplanes — both jet fighters and passenger planes — and it’s in the tens of billions of dollars. And they’ll not only get the best plane, but will help with the process of equalization. So I think we’re going to have a very — this is a very exciting meeting for me because I like this maybe the best. I love the world of finance and the world of economics, and probably, it’s where I do the best. But we will be able to work things out. I’m very happy to have Larry Kudlow with us. He’s a special man. He’s been a friend. I’ve been on his show many, many times over the years. And we’ve had a lot of fun together. We haven’t always agreed, but I noticed lately Larry is agreeing more and more with me, which makes me quite happy. And John Bolton — John was really very much involved yesterday with our meetings on North Korea and our meetings on the military. And, John, it’s great to have you and Larry with us. A real honor. Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, thank you so much for being here, and your representatives. The relationship has been so good with all of us, and let’s see how we do with, right now, the trade deficit. Thank you very much for being here. Please. Thank you very much, Shinzo. I’d like to just maybe conclude by saying that it’s an honor that you wanted to be at Mar-a-Lago. We have a lot of people that want to be here. It’s just a special place. And somehow it makes people feel good, and that’s good for a relationship. “Reciprocal” is the world that I think we have to start using with a lot of nations, not only Japan. So when we say, “free,” that’s good. “Fair,” that’s good. But I like to say, “free, fair, and reciprocal.” And the word “reciprocal” is that when you have a car come in, we charge you a tax. When we have a car go through Japan, which aren’t allowed to go there, we have to take down the barriers and we have to pay the same tax. But that goes for other countries, too. I mean, China, as an example, when they send a car to us, it’s 2.5 percent tax. When we send a car to them, number one, they don’t take it, and number two, it’s 25 percent tax. And then you wonder why we have $500 billion of imbalance. And it’s not right. So hopefully, the word “reciprocal” will be the primary word that we’re going to be using. And we use that with every nation now, because the United States has not been properly led on trade. Our people have let us down. Whether it’s our Presidents or our representatives, they’ve let us down. So free, fair, and reciprocal. And I think we’ve all agreed to that. And that’s just very important. Thank you very much. Thank you. Q Mr. President, are you concerned about Mike Pompeo’s confirmation? No, I think he’s going to come through. I think Mike Pompeo is extraordinary. He was number one at West Point. He was top at Harvard. He’s a great gentleman. I think he’ll go down as truly a great Secretary of State. I will say this about Rand Paul: He’s never let me down. Rand Paul is a very special guy, as far as I’m concerned. He’s never let me down. And I don’t think he’ll let us down again. So let’s see what happens. If you remember, he voted for healthcare and he did us a big favor. It was somebody else that voted against it that hurt us. So I have a lot of confidence in Rand, but I also have a great deal of confidence in Mike Pompeo. I think Mike Pompeo will go down as one of the great Secretary of States. And, by the way, he just left North Korea. Had a great meeting with Kim Jong-un, and got along with him really well, really great. And he’s that kind of a guy. He’s very smart but he gets along with people. So I think that Mike will be in good shape. We’ll see what happens. You know, a lot of people are predicting other things. But I have a feeling it’s going to work out very well, and I think our country really needs him. He’s going to be a great leader. Thank you very much. Thank you. END 3:01 P.M. EDT
Thank you very much. I’d like to begin by condemning the heinous attack on innocent Syrians with banned chemical weapons. It was an atrocious attack. It was horrible. You don’t see things like that. As bad as the news is around the world, you just don’t see those images. We are studying that situation extremely closely. We are meeting with our military and everybody else, and we’ll be making some major decisions over the next 24 to 48 hours. We are very concerned when a thing like that can happen. This is about humanity. We’re talking about humanity. And it can’t be allowed to happen. So we’ll be looking at that barbaric act and studying what’s going on. We’re trying to get people in there. As you know, it’s been surrounded. So it’s very hard to get people in because not only has it been hit, it’s been surrounded. And if they’re innocent, why aren’t they allowing people to go in and prove? Because as you know, they’re claiming they didn’t make the attack. So if it’s Russia, if it’s Syria, if it’s Iran, if it’s all of them together, we’ll figure it out and we’ll know the answers quite soon. So we’re looking at that very, very strongly and very seriously. I’d also like to provide an update on trade negotiations. We have a situation with China where we have a very good relationship with China, and I think we’ll maintain that relationship. I’m very good friends with President Xi. I have great respect for President Xi. And as you know, I spent two days in China. The President spent two days with us at Mar-a- Lago, in Florida. And they were four great days. With that being said, China has been taking advantage of the United States for many years, really, if you look at it since the start of the World Trade Organization. And they have really done a number on this country. And I don’t blame China. I blame the people running our country. I blame Presidents, I blame representatives, I blame negotiators. We should have been able to do what they did. We didn’t do it; they did. And it’s the most lopsided set of trade rules, regulations that anybody has ever seen. With that being said, we have many of them. NAFTA was a horrible deal. We’re renegotiating it. We’ll see what happens. But we’re strongly renegotiating NAFTA. If you look at the European Union, they have tremendous barriers — trade barriers. We, essentially, have bad deals with everyone. We’re close to finishing a deal with South Korea, which was a horrible deal. It was going to give us 200,000 jobs. Well, that didn’t exactly happen. It gave them 200,000 jobs. We lost jobs. And it was a horrible deal, and that’s being renegotiated. And we have a long way to go, but we’ve made a tremendous progress. We’re fairly close on NAFTA, and if we don’t make the right deal we’ll terminate NAFTA and we’ll make the right deal after that. But we have a chance to make a deal on NAFTA. And as I said, the North Korea and South Korea situation, which complicates it — the deal that we have with South Korea, I think, is going to be — I think it’s going to be a very fair deal. We want a fair deal. And we don’t have fair deals. North Korea, by the way, as you’ve probably seen — and we’ve been in touch with North Korea — we’ll be meeting with them sometime in May or early June. And I think there’ll be great respect paid by both parties and hopefully we’ll be able to make a deal on the de-nuking of North Korea. they’ve said so; we’ve said so. Hopefully, it will be a relationship that’s much different than it’s been for many, many years. This should have been done by other Presidents and they’ve decided they didn’t do it. They couldn’t have done it. But it would have been a lot easier if it were done 5 years ago, 10 years ago, 20 years ago. A lot easier than now. But we have a meeting that is being set up with North Korea. So that will be very exciting, I think, for the world. I think it’s going to be a very exciting thing for the world. We’re going to be talking about opioid today — opioid destruction and drug destruction. As you know, we strengthened up our southern border. Last year, we had record-low numbers. This year, they’ve gone up to a certain extent. It might be because our economy is good and people are trying to come into our good economy. But we’re putting the National Guard and military at the border. We’re beefing up the Border Patrol, who’ve done a fantastic job. ICE has done a fantastic job, and we will take care of that situation. We need a wall. Whether you’re a Republican or Democrat, we need a wall. And it will stop your drug flow. It will knock the hell out of the drug flow. And it will stop a lot of people that we don’t want in this country from coming into our country. But right now, we’re putting the military and we’re putting the National Guard, and we’re going to have very strong borders. We have strong borders now, but they’re going to be much stronger. And with that, the Cabinet meeting will begin. We’re going to be discussing a lot of different elements of what’s going on. The country is doing very well. We’ve created 3 million jobs since the election. We have 700,000 jobs in the last number of months. The numbers are starting to come out from companies, corporations. They’re doing incredibly well. It’s very solid. Our country is on very solid footing. When we do a deal with China, which, probably, we will. If we don’t, they’ll have to pay pretty high taxes to do business with our country. That’s a possibility. But if we do a deal with China, if during the course of a negotiation they want to hit the farmers because they think that hits me, I wouldn’t say that’s nice. But I tell you, our farmers are great patriots. These are great patriots. They understand that they’re doing this for the country. And we’ll make it up to them. And in the end, they’re going to be much stronger than they are right now. Don’t forget, farmers have been trending downward over an eight-year period. Their numbers have trended downward, in some cases significantly. So between NAFTA and China and all of the things we’re doing, we’re going to make them much better than they’ve ever been. But during this period of time — Sonny Perdue is here. You understand exactly what I’m saying. There will be a little work to be done. But the farmers will be better off than they ever were. We’ll take a little while to get there, but it could be very quick, actually. But I say, it’s not nice when they hit the farmers specifically because they think that hits me. So with that being said, we’re doing very well on trade and trade deals. I think deals will be made. I think we’re going to make deals with a lot of countries that have taken advantage of us. And we will be reporting back to everybody, and we’ll start our Cabinet meeting. And thank you all, media, press. Thank you all for being here. Q Mr. President, do you still want to get out of Syria? Do you still want to get out of Syria, Mr. President? We’re going to make a decision on all of that, in particular Syria. We’ll be making that decision very quickly, probably by the end of today. But we cannot allow atrocities like that. Cannot allow it. Q Does Putin bear responsibility for this? He may. Yeah, he may. And if he does, it’s going to be very tough. Very tough. Q He’ll pay a price if — Everybody is going to pay a price. He will. Everybody will. Q Mr. President, is U.S. military action off the table? Excuse me? Q U.S. military action, is it off the table as it relates to Syria? Nothing is off the table. Nothing is off the table. Q Is there some doubt as to who was responsible for this, sir? Well, they’re saying they’re not. But to me, there’s not much of a doubt, but the generals will figure it out probably over the next 24 hours. Thank you, everybody. Thank you. Thank you. Q Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Jon. Q Mr. President, are you concerned about the stock market ? No, not at all. No. The market is up today very substantially. No, not at all. Don’t forget, our country is going to be much stronger when this is all finished, just so you understand. You know, these trade deals are horrible. Our country is going to be much stronger when this is finished. Okay? So that’s very important. Thank you. Thank you. END 11:48 A.M. EDT
Okay, thank you very much. Today, it’s my pleasure to congratulate Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania on the 100th anniversary of their independence. That’s really quite a great achievement, and congratulations. And I’m honored to have you with us in the White House and the Oval Office. We covered a little territory today. Right? Really tremendous. One hundred years. We’re thrilled to celebrate this historic milestone by welcoming all of you to our country. And I know you’ve been here a little bit before, but this is something special. So we really enjoy having you. From the very beginning of your countries’ independence, the United States never — and this is, like, never — and I think you know that better than anybody — never ceased to recognize the sovereignty of the three Baltic republics, even though, throughout the years, there’s been a lot of conflict, a lot of problems, a lot of difficulty, and we never let you down. And we won’t let you down. At today’s U.S.-Baltic Centennial Summit, we’re inaugurating 100 years of renewed partnership among our nations, grounded once more in our shared commitment to independent sovereignty and a total respect of the rule of law. This afternoon, we will discuss our cooperation on a range of issues, including expanding bilateral trade and investment. And I know you’re making a lot of investment in our country. You’re buying a lot of military equipment from the United States. And we make the best military equipment in the world by far, whether it’s missiles or planes or anything else. So we appreciate that. And we’re also going to be promoting joint security initiatives. I especially want to commend the Baltic nations on meeting their defense spending obligations this year for NATO, unlike some of the other countries, frankly, that haven’t met their obligations, but they will. We have a tremendous amount more — and I will take credit for this, and you have given me credit for this — a lot more money coming into NATO because of my initiative. I said, “You have to pay.” A lot of years, they weren’t paying. They were delinquent. And now they’re paying. So NATO is taking in a lot more money than it ever did before. And ultimately, it will be at least $33 billion more over a short period of time. That’s a lot of money. Big difference. It’s a privilege to host all of you at the White House for this historic summit, and I look forward to getting to know you better. And we’re going to be meeting with your representatives throughout the day and throughout the days. And we’re going to have a very long and strong relationship. Thank you very much for being here. Thank you. Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you. Thank you very much. I have to say this: China. I have great respect for President Xi. Two of the most incredible days of my life were spent in China, and many of you were with me. He’s a tremendous person. But we have a problem with China. They’ve created a trade deficit, and I really blame our representatives and, frankly, our preceding Presidents for this. We have a trade deficit of $500 billion a year. It’s not something we can live with. So we’ll be working with China. We’ll be negotiating with China. Again, our relationship is very good with China, and we intend to keep it that way. But we have to do something to seriously relieve that trade deficit. We can’t have a $500 billion-a-year trade deficit. We also have the theft of intellectual property, and that probably is in the neighborhood of $200 to $300 billion a year. So whether we like it or not, we have a great stock market. We have a very, very powerful country. We have our country, militarily, as you know, Presidents. We have just received $700 billion. Our military will be stronger than ever before. But we have to do something on trade with certain countries. And, obviously, China is the leader in terms of deficits. We’ve never had a situation where a country — nor has there ever been in history a situation where a country has done that to another country. We’ve helped rebuild China over the last 25 years, if you take a look at what’s happened. We have helped rebuild China. So we intend to get along with China, but we have to do something very substantial about the trade deficit. And with that, nothing is easy. I campaigned on that, I talked about that. China won’t be the only country, but I did, in fact, campaign on it. Mexico — if you look at the caravan of thousands of people coming across — I told Mexico, look, you have a cash cow in NAFTA. NAFTA has been great for Mexico; it has not been good for the United States. A lot of businesses have closed down because of NAFTA. You look at empty plants all over the place — and this is from years ago — and they still haven’t recovered. NAFTA has been a terrible deal for the United States. We’re renegotiating the deal right now, but it will still be good for Mexico and for Canada. And when this caravan came in — and this is a caravan of a lot of people coming in — in this case, from Honduras. If it reaches our border, our laws are so weak and so pathetic, you would not understand this because — I know how strong your laws are at the border. It’s like we have no border because we had Obama make changes. President Obama made changes that basically created no border. It’s called catch-and-release. You catch them, you register them, they go into our country and we can’t throw them out. And, in many cases, they shouldn’t be here. In many, many cases, they shouldn’t be here. And after they get whatever happens over the next two or three years, they’re supposed to come back to court. Almost nobody comes back to court. They’re in our country, and we can’t do anything about it because the laws that were created by Democrats are so pathetic and so weak. So I told Mexico — and I respect what they did — I said, look, your laws are very powerful; your laws are very strong. We have very bad laws for our border, and we are going to be doing some things — I’ve been speaking with General Mattis — we’re going to be doing things militarily. Until we can have a wall and proper security, we’re going to be guarding our border with the military. That’s a big step. We really haven’t done that before — certainly not very much before. But we will be doing things with Mexico, and they have to do this, otherwise I’m not going to do the NAFTA deal. NAFTA has been fantastic for Mexico, bad for us. We’ve had our car plants moved to Mexico — many of them. We make tremendous numbers — millions of cars in Mexico that years ago didn’t exist. They closed in Michigan, they closed in Ohio, they closed in other places. Now they’re starting to move back. Because of what we’ve done with regulation and with taxes, they’re starting to come back into our country in a big way. But I told Mexico very strongly: You’re going to have to do something about these caravans that are coming up. And I just noticed that the caravan now, which is toward the middle of Mexico coming up from Honduras, is breaking up very rapidly. That’s because Mexico has very strong immigration laws, as we should have. We should have those laws. We don’t have — we have immigration laws that are laughed at by everybody. And it’s going to be changed. We need the wall, we need the protection, and we have to change our immigration laws at the border and elsewhere. So Mexico has — at this moment, it seems they’ve broken up large numbers of that particular caravan. And we’ll see what happens. But we’re prepared at our border. We cannot have people flowing into our country illegally, disappearing, and, by the way, never showing up to court. So the court case will be set for two years or three years, if you can believe this, and they never show up, for the most part. Very rarely do they show up. Plus, if you notice, they’re trying to hire thousands of judges so every person that walks across — and they’re taught to say the right thing — they walk across, and then they go and they’re supposed to go to court. So we’re supposed to have thousands of judges because we cannot have them take it out. We have to bring them before a ridiculous court system. We have to change our policies fast — just like we have to change on sanctuary cities. If you look at what’s happening in California, they’re having revolts out there because there are a lot of areas — Orange County and others — they don’t want to have sanctuary cities, which are guarding criminals. So a lot of things are changing. But I’ve just heard that the caravan coming up from Honduras is broken up, and Mexico did that. And they did it because, frankly, I said, “You really have to do it.” We’re going to have a relationship with NAFTA. We’re going to have to include security in NAFTA. So Mexico has very strong laws, and that’s the way it is. So it looks like it’s been broken up. So that will be good. Okay. Thank you all very much. Q Mr. President, it seems as though the caravan is starting to irritate you. No, the caravan doesn’t irritate me. The caravan makes me very sad that this can happen to the United States, where you have thousands of people that decide to just walk into our country, and we don’t have any laws that can protect it. And the wall, because of the Democrats, has been delayed — which we’ve started the wall. Just so you understand, we have $1.6 billion. We’re fixing and building brand-new walls in certain areas. And we’re doing a lot of work on walls. We have $1.6 billion, and we’re starting brand-new sections of walls. But we need to have a wall that’s about 800 miles — 700 to 800 miles of the 2,000-mile stretch. We have a lot of natural boundaries. But it’s very sad to see it. And it’s sad, even, for both sides. It’s sad for the people in the caravan, and it’s sad for the people of the United States. It’s really sad that we don’t have laws that say we have a border, and if you don’t do it legally, you can’t come into the United States. To me, that’s a very sad thing for the people of the United States. Thank you all very much. Q We’ll be very good. I have great respect for the Baltic States. Tremendous people. Tremendous leaders, who I’ve known now for a pretty long period of time. No, we have great respect for the Baltic States. Thank you. Thank you very much, everybody. Q Do you want Vladimir Putin to come to the White House, sir? We want to be able, if possible — and this is speaking with the Baltic States — ideally, we want to be able to get along with Russia. Getting along with Russia is a good thing, not a bad thing. Now, maybe we will and maybe we won’t. And probably nobody has been tougher to Russia than Donald Trump. If you take a look at our military strength now, which would not have happened had the opponent won; if you take a look at the oil and gas that we’re producing now — we’re independent, we’re now exporting oil and gas — this is not something that Russia wanted. The three Presidents just told me that NATO is taking in a tremendous amount of money because of Donald Trump. That would have never happened. So NATO is much stronger. You may want to say that. Would you like to say that, Madam President? PRESIDENT GRYBAUSKAITĖ: We talked already in the — five minutes ago that, for us, is important the presence and impetus of the United States in NATO. We expect, together with the United States, to go ahead with deep reforms on NATO, especially on decision making, on decisiveness, on their denial — acts of denial, which we expect to see from Russia in case of aggression. Without United States, this is not possible. About 80 percent of spending is coming to the NATO from the United States, and why the vital voice and vital leadership of United States for the reforms is important. We are behind and with you. I think that the best allies you have in Europe and NATO is Baltic States today. And we also doing our homework. We’re modernizing armies. We’re spending already 2 percent. And together, I think we can do a lot. And I am very much looking forward to see everybody around the table in Brussels and going ahead with a better NATO, a more resultative NATO, and more efficient And has Donald Trump made a difference on NATO? PRESIDENT GRYBAUSKAITĖ: As I said — This is a very risky question. PRESIDENT GRYBAUSKAITĖ: No, no, no. If she says the same thing that she said in the Oval Office it will be — PRESIDENT GRYBAUSKAITĖ: I will repeat that it is very good pressure to all of us, all members of NATO — is perfect pressure to all political elite who thinks that somebody else needs to protect, but not themselves. So first you do the homework, and then you ask for your partner to come with you. And that’s exactly what you did. And this kind of leadership is good. We’re using it, also, I am hoping. We’re using it to influence their opinions in our countries that — but first we need to invest ourselves, and only then the partners can come with us. And again, NATO has taken in billions of dollars more because of me, because I said, “You’re delinquent, you’re not paying,” to many of the countries. Is that right? Many of the countries weren’t paying. And even now, Germany is paying 1 percent and they’re not even paying the full 1 percent. Germany hooks up a pipeline into Russia, where Germany is going to be paying billions of dollars for energy into Russia. And I’m saying, “What’s going on with that? How come Germany is paying vast amounts of money to Russia when they hook up a pipeline?” That’s not right. So you look at what’s going on. Now, so Germany pays 1 percent. The United States is paying close to 4 percent. The United States, as you said, is paying 80 percent of the cost of NATO. Do you think that’s fair? With all of that being said, because of me — and you can speak to the head of NATO, Mr. Stoltenberg; he said that because of what I’ve said to the countries, they’ve taken in — General, I think you’ll confirm this too — many billions of dollars more than they would have had if you had crooked Hillary Clinton as President. Okay? That I can tell you. Many billions of dollars more. So, you know, we’ve been very tough on that. We’ve been very tough on Russia, frankly. But I will say that if we got along with Russia, that would be a good thing, not a bad thing. It’s possible we won’t. We’re going to find out whether or not we do. But if we could all get along, that would be great. And that includes China, and that includes many other countries. But we’ll see what happens. Only time will tell. But nobody has been tougher on Russia. But getting along with Russia would be a good thing, not a bad thing. And just about everybody agrees to that, except very stupid people. Okay. Q How do see Vladimir Putin? Is he a friend or a foe? We’ll find out. I’ll let you know. I mean, there will be a time when I’ll let you know. You’re going to find out very quickly. We’ll see what happens. Q Any frontline troops? Any frontline troops in the Baltics? Thank you. No, I have great respect for the Baltics. I have great respect for my friends. I’ve known them now for — right from the beginning of my presidency. These are great, courageous people and have done a fantastic job for their country. So I have great respect for you and for your nations. Thank you all. Q Is it Amazon or the Washington Post, sir? What’s Amazon done that bugs you, sir? When you take a look at the Post Office — you take a look at the Post Office, and the Post Office is losing billions of dollars and the taxpayers are paying for that money because it delivers packages for Amazon at a very below cost. And that’s not fair to the United States. It’s not fair to our taxpayers. And Amazon has the money to pay the fair rate at the Post Office, which would be much more than they’re paying right now. The other thing is a lot of retail businesses all over the country are going out of business, so that’s a different problem, and it’s a big problem. You have retailers all over the United States that are going out of business. You look at some of these small towns where they had a beautiful Main Street with stores — the stores are all gone. So that’s a different problem that we’re going to have to talk about. But if you look at the cost that we’re subsidizing — we’re giving a subsidy to Amazon. And we’re talking about billions of dollars a year. The real cost. And a report just came out; they said, $1.47, I believe, or about that — for every time they deliver a package, the United States government — meaning, the Post Office — loses a $1.47. So Amazon is going to have to pay much more money to the Post Office, there’s no doubt about that. Thank you all very much. Thank you. Q Scott Pruitt, sir? Do you support Scott Pruitt? I hope he’s going to be great. END 12:30 P.M. EDT
Thank you very much. I recognize so many of my friends. This is definitely an Irish group. There’s no doubt about it. Taoiseach, I’ll tell you, we’ve become friends — fast friends — over a short period of time. It’s a pleasure to have you, and, on behalf of the First Lady and myself, thank you very much. And Karen and Mike Pence, thank you very much. It’s a great, great group. Great group of people. Also to all of my friends in the audience, some of them came all the way up from the beautiful island of Manhattan. They wanted to see Taoiseach. You’re going to see him on Saturday again, where’s he’s going to be a very outstanding part of a certain parade. A pretty big parade, right? Pretty big parade. I also want to extend my welcome to the Director of Northern Ireland Bureau in Washington, Norman Houston. Thank you. Where’s Norman? Where’s Norman? Hello Norman — who’s been a friend and a great friend to the United States in his 11 years here. He spent 11 years. But he’ll like this year the best. It’s wonderful to see so many distinguished business people and society — civil society leaders who are with us today from Northern Ireland. It’s my great honor to receive this magnificent bowl of Ireland’s famous shamrocks. That’s really nice. That is nice. Thank you very much. Wow. According to legend, Saint Patrick, the patron saint of Ireland, used the shamrock to teach the mystery of the Holy Trinity 1,500 years ago. That’s a long time. Now, many centuries later, the shamrock has become a symbol of something else as well: the long and beautiful relationship between the American and Irish peoples. That’s a great story. And a story of the Irish is one of the proud and faithful people full of love, warmth, grit, and resolve. That’s the Irish. It’s a story that is closely woven into our own. Our shared bonds are traced back generations, and all the way to our nation’s founding. At least eight of the men who signed the Declaration of Independence were of Irish heritage. And throughout our history, the United States has been enriched by the vibrant culture and enduring contributions of the truly great Irish people, people that we love. Americans of Irish descent — and I can tell you that Mike is of Irish decent. Right? Karen? No? Yes? Karen, too. Wow. I knew I liked them both for a reason. But Americans of Irish descent poured their hearts into blazing trails, taming frontiers, and building our nation. They served in every war, fighting to win the Revolution, secure our independence, and to preserve our Union. And they gave their hard-earned pennies to build the legendary place I know very well, St. Patrick’s Cathedral, in New York. Such a beautiful place. Famous and so monumental. Really, it is. And it’s a true monument to enduring faith and the enduring faith of the Irish. From Walt Disney — which I didn’t know — to F. Scott Fitzgerald — which I did know — countless Americans who helped shape our history and culture have roots that trace back to the Emerald Isle. So, too, have many of our predecessors in the Oval Office, from Andrew Jackson to Ronald Reagan. Today, more than 30 million Americans — over ten percent of this country, think of it — trace their ancestry back to Ireland. Thirty million Americans. That’s why you have so many politicians. Even if — even if they didn’t like you, they’d say that. Too many. Right? But they do love the Irish. Today, more than anything else, the Irish, they stand for strength, and love, and beauty, and they never give up. Right? That’s a trait. They never, ever give up. And the United States of America — and I say this having so many friends from Ireland — has truly been blessed with the luck of the Irish to have you with us. This week as we celebrate the life of the Apostle of Ireland, we thank you, Taoiseach, for bringing us a bit of greenery and natural beauty from your country. I look forward to your return next year. In fact, we’ll see you for about, what? Seven more years, I think. Right? Right? About seven. That’s sort of an interesting concept. Right? That’s what is going to be. But I do look forward to your return. I look forward to you being here anytime you want — and that includes you, folks. This is a very, very special group of people, and a very, very special place, Ireland. Thank you all very much for being here, and God bless you. Thank you. END 6:16 P.M EDT
Okay, thank you very much. We have a very special group of people with us today. These are escapees from North Korea. There have been many of them over the last year, and there seems to be more and more. It’s a tough place to live, and people aren’t liking it. There’s great danger, great risk. Seong-ho was with us the other night at the State of the Union Address, and really made an incredible impression on me and on everybody else, both on television and in that magnificent room. And I had an opportunity to meet with some of the folks, and their stories are amazing. And I thought, through our really fabulous interpreter, we could probably go through a couple of the stories, because they’re incredible and very inspirational. So, escapees from North Korea. Before we start, I just had a phone call with the President of South Korea, President Moon, and they are in dialogue, at least as it concerns the Olympics. And that’s a good thing, not a bad thing. And we had a great call. I also spoke to Prime Minister Abe of Japan, and we also had a very good call. So it’s a very tricky situation. We’re going to find out how it goes. But we think the Olympics will go very nicely. And after that, who knows. We’ll find out. We’re going to find out pretty soon, I suspect. So I spoke to President Moon, spoke to Prime Minister Abe. And they were both very good calls, both concerning — essentially concerning North Korea. So perhaps you can do that, and then I will — I’ll go ahead and we’ll introduce a couple of the folks. Who would like to tell the story? Would you like to start by saying what happened and how it is over there? Because the world would like to hear. That’s tough stuff. That’s pretty tough. So you got out, and hopefully you’re enjoying your life? Well, congratulations. That’s great. That’s great. It’s a great story. Yes, go ahead. Thank you very much. That’s very nice. Thank you very much. Hope it helped. That’s great. Yes, ma’am. And things are going well? That’s great. Great story. Thank you very much. It’s an amazing story. Please. Thank you. Great. Wow. That’s fantastic. Congratulations. That’s great. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. It’s an amazing title of a book. Thank you. Thank you. Good. Well, thank you very much. That’s really — they’re incredible stories. We actually have two other people outside, and they’re literally afraid of execution. They didn’t want to be with cameras, and I can understand that. They were very concerned with that, and we would certainly not want to force them to be here. So they’re right outside but they didn’t want to be on camera for a lot of very bad reasons. I want to thank you. You were so incredible the other night during the State of the Union. The story of walking across China — and further than that. There’s sort of a funny story: When I said I’d like to have him stand, one of my people said, “Don’t ask him to stand, he lost his foot. His leg is in terrible shape.” I said, “He just walked across China.” So he had no problem standing. I mean, to do what you’ve done is incredible. So would you like to say a few words? Well, we do. And those are amazing stories. And I want to thank you all for being here. This is the Oval Office. Very famous office. I guess, most of you have heard about the Oval Office. A lot of things happen here. Hopefully, they’re all for the good, but a lot of things happen right in this space. So it’s my honor to have you here. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. Thank you very much everybody. Thank you. Q Mr. President, what do you think of the memo? I think the memo — I think it’s terrible. You want to know the truth? I think it’s a disgrace. What’s going on in this country, I think it’s a disgrace. The memo was sent to Congress. It was declassified. Congress will do whatever they’re going to do, but I think it’s a disgrace what’s happening in our country. And when you look at that, and you see that, and so many other things, what’s going on — a lot of people should be ashamed of themselves and much worse than that. So I sent it over to Congress and they will do what they’re going to do. Whatever they do is fine. It was declassified. And let’s see what happens. But a lot of people should be ashamed. Thank you very much. Q Are you not concerned that the FBI doesn’t want the memo out? Thank you very much. Q Does it make you more likely to fire Rosenstein? Do you still have confidence in him after reading the memo? You figure that one out. Q We haven’t seen it yet though. Q North Korea by having this meeting today? I don’t think so. These are just great people that have suffered incredibly. There are many, many others like them that have suffered so much, and they were here and I said, let’s tell your story very quickly. We have others in a different room, as I told you, that are really petrified to be here. Petrified. So, it’s tough stuff. It’s tough stuff. Q Mr. President, do you believe there’s more the United States can do to help North Korean defectors? Well, we’re doing a lot. We’ve done more than — I mean, we have many administrations that should have acted on this a long time ago when it wasn’t that this kind of a — when we weren’t in this kind of a position. You know, we ran out of road — you know the expression. The road really ended. They could’ve done it 12 years ago. They could have done it 20 years ago. They could’ve done it four years ago and two years ago. We have no road left. So we’ll see what happens. But, in the meantime, we’ll get through the Olympics and maybe something good can come out of the Olympics. Who knows. Thank you very much everybody. Thank you. Q Do you still have confidence in Rosenstein after — Thank you very much everybody. Q Super Bowl predictions? Super Bowl predictions, sir? I better not get involved. END 11:54 A.M. EST
Thank you, Klaus, very much. It’s a privilege to be here at this forum where leaders in business, science, art, diplomacy, and world affairs have gathered for many, many years to discuss how we can advance prosperity, security, and peace. I’m here today to represent the interests of the American people and to affirm America’s friendship and partnership in building a better world. Like all nations represented at this great forum, America hopes for a future in which everyone can prosper, and every child can grow up free from violence, poverty, and fear. Over the past year, we have made extraordinary strides in the U.S. We’re lifting up forgotten communities, creating exciting new opportunities, and helping every American find their path to the American Dream — the dream of a great job, a safe home, and a better life for their children. After years of stagnation, the United States is once again experiencing strong economic growth. The stock market is smashing one record after another, and has added more than $7 trillion in new wealth since my election. Consumer confidence, business confidence, and manufacturing confidence are the highest they have been in many decades. Since my election, we’ve created 2.4 million jobs, and that number is going up very, very substantially. Small-business optimism is at an all-time high. New unemployment claims are near the lowest we’ve seen in almost half a century. African American unemployment has reached the lowest rate ever recorded in the United States, and so has unemployment among Hispanic Americans. The world is witnessing the resurgence of a strong and prosperous America. I’m here to deliver a simple message: There has never been a better time to hire, to build, to invest, and to grow in the United States. America is open for business, and we are competitive once again. The American economy is by far the largest in the world, and we’ve just enacted the most significant tax cuts and reform in American history. We’ve massively cut taxes for the middle class and small businesses to let working families keep more of their hard-earned money. We lowered our corporate tax rate from 35 percent, all the way down to 21 percent. As a result, millions of workers have received tax cut bonuses from their employers in amounts as large as $3,000. The tax cut bill is expected to raise the average American’s household income by more than $4,000. The world’s largest company, Apple, announced plans to bring $245 billion in overseas profits home to America. Their total investment into the United States economy will be more than $350 billion over the next five years. Now is the perfect time to bring your business, your jobs, and your investments to the United States. This is especially true because we have undertaken the most extensive regulatory reduction ever conceived. Regulation is stealth taxation. The U.S., like many other countries, unelected bureaucrats — and we have — believe me, we have them all over the place — and they’ve imposed crushing and anti-business and anti-worker regulations on our citizens with no vote, no legislative debate, and no real accountability. In America, those days are over. I pledged to eliminate two unnecessary regulations for every one new regulation. We have succeeded beyond our highest expectations. Instead of 2 for 1, we have cut 22 burdensome regulations for every 1 new rule. We are freeing our businesses and workers so they can thrive and flourish as never before. We are creating an environment that attracts capital, invites investment, and rewards production. America is the place to do business. So come to America, where you can innovate, create, and build. I believe in America. As President of the United States, I will always put America first, just like the leaders of other countries should put their country first also. But America first does not mean America alone. When the United States grows, so does the world. American prosperity has created countless jobs all around the globe, and the drive for excellence, creativity, and innovation in the U.S. has led to important discoveries that help people everywhere live more prosperous and far healthier lives. As the United States pursues domestic reforms to unleash jobs and growth, we are also working to reform the international trading system so that it promotes broadly shared prosperity and rewards to those who play by the rules. We cannot have free and open trade if some countries exploit the system at the expense of others. We support free trade, but it needs to be fair and it needs to be reciprocal. Because, in the end, unfair trade undermines us all. The United States will no longer turn a blind eye to unfair economic practices, including massive intellectual property theft, industrial subsidies, and pervasive state-led economic planning. These and other predatory behaviors are distorting the global markets and harming businesses and workers, not just in the U.S., but around the globe. Just like we expect the leaders of other countries to protect their interests, as President of the United States, I will always protect the interests of our country, our companies, and our workers. We will enforce our trade laws and restore integrity to our trading system. Only by insisting on fair and reciprocal trade can we create a system that works not just for the U.S. but for all nations. As I have said, the United States is prepared to negotiate mutually beneficial, bilateral trade agreements with all countries. This will include the countries in TPP, which are very important. We have agreements with several of them already. We would consider negotiating with the rest, either individually, or perhaps as a group, if it is in the interests of all. My administration is also taking swift action in other ways to restore American confidence and independence. We are lifting self-imposed restrictions on energy production to provide affordable power to our citizens and businesses, and to promote energy security for our friends all around the world. No country should be held hostage to a single provider of energy. America is roaring back, and now is the time to invest in the future of America. We have dramatically cut taxes to make America competitive. We are eliminating burdensome regulations at a record pace. We are reforming the bureaucracy to make it lean, responsive, and accountable. And we are ensuring our laws are enforced fairly. We have the best colleges and universities in the world, and we have the best workers in the world. Energy is abundant and affordable. There has never been a better time to come to America. We are also making historic investments in the American military because we cannot have prosperity without security. To make the world safer from rogue regimes, terrorism, and revisionist powers, we are asking our friends and allies to invest in their own defenses and to meet their financial obligations. Our common security requires everyone to contribute their fair share. My administration is proud to have led historic efforts, at the United Nations Security Council and all around the world, to unite all civilized nations in our campaign of maximum pressure to de-nuke the Korean Peninsula. We continue to call on partners to confront Iran’s support for terrorists and block Iran’s path to a nuclear weapon. We’re also working with allies and partners to destroy jihadist terrorist organizations such as ISIS, and very successfully so. The United States is leading a very broad coalition to deny terrorists control of their territory and populations, to cut off their funding, and to discredit their wicked ideology. I am pleased to report that the coalition to defeat ISIS has retaken almost 100 percent of the territory once held by these killers in Iraq and Syria. There is still more fighting and work to be done and to consolidate our gains. We are committed to ensuring that Afghanistan never again becomes a safe haven for terrorists who want to commit mass murder to our civilian populations. I want to thank those nations represented here today that have joined in these crucial efforts. You are not just securing your own citizens, but saving lives and restoring hope for millions and millions of people. When it comes to terrorism, we will do whatever is necessary to protect our nation. We will defend our citizens and our borders. We are also securing our immigration system, as a matter of both national and economic security. America is a cutting-edge economy, but our immigration system is stuck in the past. We must replace our current system of extended-family chain migration with a merit-based system of admissions that selects new arrivals based on their ability to contribute to our economy, to support themselves financially, and to strengthen our country. In rebuilding America, we are also fully committed to developing our workforce. We are lifting people from dependence to independence, because we know the single best anti-poverty program is a very simple and very beautiful paycheck. To be successful, it is not enough to invest in our economy. We must invest in our people. When people are forgotten, the world becomes fractured. Only by hearing and responding to the voices of the forgotten can we create a bright future that is truly shared by all. The nation’s greatness is more than the sum of its production. A nation’s greatness is the sum of its citizens: the values, pride, love, devotion, and character of the people who call that nation home. From my first international G7 Summit, to the G20, to the U.N. General Assembly, to APEC, to the World Trade Organization, and today at the World Economic Forum, my administration has not only been present, but has driven our message that we are all stronger when free, sovereign nations cooperate toward shared goals and they cooperate toward shared dreams. Represented in this room are some of the remarkable citizens from all over the world. You are national leaders, business titans, industry giants, and many of the brightest minds in many fields. Each of you has the power to change hearts, transform lives, and shape your countries’ destinies. With this power comes an obligation, however — a duty of loyalty to the people, workers, and customers who have made you who you are. So together, let us resolve to use our power, our resources, and our voices, not just for ourselves, but for our people — to lift their burdens, to raise their hopes, and to empower their dreams; to protect their families, their communities, their histories, and their futures. That’s what we’re doing in America, and the results are totally unmistakable. It’s why new businesses and investment are flooding in. It’s why our unemployment rate is the lowest it’s been in so many decades. It’s why America’s future has never been brighter. Today, I am inviting all of you to become part of this incredible future we are building together. Thank you to our hosts, thank you to the leaders and innovators in the audience. But most importantly, thank you to all of the hardworking men and women who do their duty each and every day, making this a better world for everyone. Together, let us send our love and our gratitude to make them, because they really make our countries run. They make our countries great. Thank you, and God bless you all. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Well, first of all, Klaus, I want to congratulate you. This is an incredible group of people. We had dinner last night with about 15 leaders of industry, none of whom I knew, but all of whom I’ve read about for years. And it was truly an incredible group. But I think I have 15 new friends. So this has been really great what you’ve done and putting it together, the economic forum. The tax reform was a dream of a lot of people over many years, but they weren’t able to get it done. Many people tried, and Ronald Reagan was really the last to make a meaningful cut and reform. And ours is cutting and reforming. We emphasize cut, but the reform is probably almost as important. We’ve wanted to do it. It is very tough, politically, to do it. Hard to believe that would be, but it is very, very tough. That’s why it hasn’t been done in close to 40 years. And once we got it going, it was going. And the big — and I wouldn’t say a total surprise, but one of the big things that happened and took place is AT&T and some others came out very early and they said they were going to pay thousands and thousands of dollars to people that work for their companies. And you have 300,000, 400,000, 500,000 people working for these companies, and all of a sudden it became like a big waterfall, a big, beautiful waterfall where so many companies are doing it. And even today they just announced many more. But every day they announce more and more. And now it’s a fight for who’s going to give the most. It started at 1,000, and now we have them up to 3,000. This is something that we didn’t anticipate. Oftentimes in business, things happen that you don’t anticipate. Usually that’s a bad thing, but this was a good thing. This came out of nowhere. Nobody ever thought of this as a possibility even. It wasn’t in the equation. We waited — we said, wait until February 1st when the checks start coming in. And people, Klaus, have a lot more money in their paycheck — because it’s not just a little money, this is a lot of money for people making a living doing whatever they may be doing. And we really though February 1st it was going to kick in and everybody was going to be — well, we haven’t even gotten there yet and it’s kicked in. And it’s had an incredible impact on the stock market and the stock prices. We’ve set 84 records since my election — record stock market prices, meaning we hit new highs 84 different times out of a one-year period. And that’s a great thing. And in all fairness, that was done before we passed the tax cuts and tax reform. So what happened is really something special. Then, as you know, and as I just said, Apple came in with $350 billion. And I tell you, I spoke with Tim Cook; I said, Tim, I will never consider this whole great run that we’ve made complete until you start building plants in the U.S. And I will tell you, this moved up very substantially. But when I heard 350, I thought he was talking — I thought they were talking $350 million. And, by the way, that’s a nice-sized plant. Not the greatest, but not bad. And they said, “No, sir. It’s $350 billion.” I said, that is something. Well, we have tremendous amounts of money, including my newfound friends from last night — great companies. They’re all investing. When one of the gentlemen said he’s putting in $2 billion because of the tax cuts, I said to myself, “Wow, he’s actually the cheap one in the group” — because they’re putting in massive numbers of billions of dollars. So I think you have a brand-new United States. You have a United States where people from all over the world are looking to come in and invest, and there’s just nothing like what’s happening. And I just want to finish by — I have a group of people that have been so — I have a whole lot of them, so I won’t introduce because then I’ll insult at least half of them. But I’ve had a group of people that worked so hard on this and other things. And we’re really doing — we had a great first year — so successful in so many different ways. And there’s a tremendous spirit. When you look at all of the different charts and polls, and you see, as an example, African American unemployment at the historic low — it’s never had a period of time like this. Same with Hispanic. Women at a 17-year low. It’s very heartwarming to see. But there’s a tremendous spirit in the United States. I would say it’s a spirit like I have never witnessed before. I’ve been here for awhile. I have never witnessed the spirit that our country has right now. So I just want to thank you all, and all those that are pouring billions of dollars into our country, or ten dollars into our country, we thank you very much. Thank you. Sounds very interesting. I didn’t know about this one. Yes. Good, I would like to do that. That’s very nice. Steven, Wilbur, Gary, Robert, even my General and my various other generals, you know. We’re making our military protection a little bit better for us too. So thank you very much. Does everybody understand that? I think so. Thank you all for being here. Well, being a businessman has been a great experience for me. I’ve loved it. I’ve always loved business. I’ve always been good at building things, and I’ve always been successful at making money. I’d buy things that would fail –that would be failures — and I’d turn them around and try and get them for the right price, and then I’d turn them around and make them successful. And I’ve been good at it. And that takes a certain ability. And, you know, historically, I guess, there’s never really been a businessman or businessperson elected President. It’s always been a general or a politician. Throughout history, it’s always been a general — you had to be a general — but mostly it was politicians. You never have a businessman. And then, in all fairness, I was saying to Klaus last night: Had the opposing party to me won — some of whom you backed, some of the people in the room — instead of being up almost 50 percent — the stock market is up since my election almost 50 percent — rather than that, I believe the stock market from that level, the initial level, would have been down close to 50 percent. That’s where we were heading. I really believe that — because they were going to put on massive new regulations. You couldn’t breathe. It was choking our country to death. And I was able to see that, Klaus, as a businessperson. The other thing is, I’ve always seemed to get, for whatever reason, a disproportionate amount of press or media. Throughout my whole life — somebody will explain someday why — but I’ve always gotten a lot. And as businessman I was always treated really well by the press. The numbers speak and things happen, but I’ve always really had a very good press. And it wasn’t until I became a politician that I realized how nasty, how mean, how vicious, and how fake the press can be. As the cameras start going off in the background. But overall — I mean, the bottom line — somebody said, well, they couldn’t have been that bad because here we are — we’re President. And I think we’re doing a really great job with my team. I have a team of just tremendous people, and I think we’re doing a very special job. And I really believe it was time, and it was time to do that job, because I don’t think the United States would have done very well if it went through four or eight more years of regulation and, really, a very anti-business group of people. We have a very pro-business group. We have regulations cut to a level — in the history of our country, Klaus — this was reported recently. In one year we’ve cut more regulations in my administration than any other administration in four, eight, or sixteen years, in the one case. We’ve cut more regulations in one year, and we have a ways to go. I mean, we’re probably 50 percent done. And we’re going to have regulation. There’s nothing wrong with rules and regulations; you need them. But we’ve cut more than any administration ever in the history of our country, and we still have a ways to go. So I think between that and the tremendous tax cuts, we’ve really done something. And one other thing I said — and I saw it last night with some of the leaders and the businesspeople — I think I’ve been a cheerleader for our country, and everybody representing a company or a country has to be a cheerleader, or no matter what you do, it’s just not going to work. And the reason I’m a cheerleader is because it’s easy — because I love our country and I think we’re just doing really well. And we look forward to seeing you in America — special place — and where you are is a special place also. Thank you all very much. I appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you very much everybody. Thank you. (Applause. END 2:30 P.M. CET
Well, I just want to thank everybody. The receptivity that we’ve had and the United States has had being here has been incredible. Sitting around this table are some of the greatest business leaders in the world, some of the greatest companies in the world. Probably, I can think of no other place or time where you’ll have executives of this stature. And I thought what I’d do is, first of all, I want to thank the professor for having done a fantastic job. Klaus, thank you very much. You have really done outstandingly. And putting this together at this level over many years has been a great tribute to you and your entire group and your entire family. So thank you very much. It’s an honor to be here representing the United States. I just want to say that there’s been a lot of warmth, a lot of respect for our country. And a lot of money — billions and billions of dollars — is coming into the U.S. And people are very happy with what we’ve done, not only on the tax bill, but also cutting of regulations, and I think also being a cheerleader for our country. You know, if you’re not a cheerleader for your company or for your country, no matter what happens, it’s not going to work. And that’s what I’ve been and that’s what my whole group has been. So perhaps I’ll start on my left and you can go around. And here’s one of the very big, powerful businesspeople of the world. And just say a few words about your company and whatever you’d like to do. Go ahead. We said it. And, by the way, when he says he works for Siemens, he’s the president of Siemens, but that’s okay. It’s a good way of saying it. But go ahead. Yeah, we work for our country. That’s right. Same thing. And Siemens is doing good? Oh, that’s a big thing. That’s very big. That’s fantastic. Where will that be developed? Oh, Charlotte is great. That’s fantastic. Well, thank you. On behalf of Charlotte, thank you very much — and our country. Great company. Thank you very much. Great job. And people think of Nestle for candy, but I read the other day that’s actually only 3 percent of your company. So what is your primary product now? Yes. Fantastic job you’ve done. Thank you very much. Professor. That’s very good. Has this been a very successful one, right here, now? Has it all gone very well? Because it seems to really be going smoothly. A lot of really good relationships. Well, we’re honored to be here and be with you. Thank you for this. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. Volvo. That’s right. Which are 100 percent made in the How much with you will be investing? That’s great. Absolutely. Well, we’re going to be doing a lot of that. I asked the question before, when I heard Volvo, and I know they own Mack truck — I said, what’s the difference in price between a Mack and a Volvo comparable truck? And you said — He said they’re both great, but a Mack is about 15 percent more. That was very good. Thank you very much for that investment in the U.S. $2 billion is great. Thank you very much. Adidas, good. That’s fantastic. Great job. So what percentage of your company is the aspirin? So that’s a pretty small percentage. I do. I take one a day. I generally — I should say, I only take Bayer. One aspirin a day. So far, it’s been working. But it’s a great company. So are you going to be investing in the U.S.? $16 billion, wow. Thank you very much. That’s really great. Thank you. I do. That’s right. And you founded one of the most successful businesses in China. That is a big statement. You did a great job. So it’s a great honor to have you. Thank you very much. It’s a fantastic job you’ve done. I know all about you. I know everything about you. Thank you. I know. You people have done what you’ve done. Congratulations. So you’re fourth in the world. It’s a great company. And we’ll rebuild that business. That whole thing is going to get rebuilt now, the solar panels. And you’ll see a big difference. But that’s very good. So from the U.S. standpoint, you’re very happy about it? You have competition? That’s what we wanted. No, but you’ve done a great job. Thank you. Appreciate it. Wow. So, Otis compared to the size of what you do, where are you — It’s a great company. Great. That’s good. Great product. I’ve used your product, as you know. Great product. Thank you very much. Good news for a lot of people. We’re opening it up, and we’re becoming energy self-sufficient very rapidly. We really, just about are hitting that mark. And as you know, we’re opening up a lot of different places in the U.S., including the plants that you’re building. A lot of places are opening that would never even have — they wouldn’t have even conceived of them. So a lot of things are happening. Thank you. Great job you’ve done. Thank you very much. Scott is great, and Alex is great. You know, Alex is just starting, and he’s highly respected. So that’s fantastic. Scott Gottlieb, as you know, is a star. That’s very good. Thank you very much. Did you get a good price? Did you get a good price? I know you got a — you always get a good price. I know who I deal with. He always gets a good price. That’s good. One year write-off. Big difference, right? That’s probably the biggest sleeper in the whole tax bill. Thank you. Great job. Good luck with the GE purchase. Well done. Sounds good. You’ll be just fine. Go ahead. Yes. Anheuser-Busch. Right. We know it well. That’s fantastic. That’s good. Thank you very much. That’s fantastic. Thank you very much. I know. And you have done a really spectacular job. I guess pretty much everybody at this table is your customer, so that’s not so bad. I want to congratulate you — I want to thank everybody. Really, you have done incredible work, incredible jobs. These are some of the great companies of the world, many of the great companies of the world. And congratulations. And now we’ll talk. And thank you very much. Appreciate it. Thank you very much. END
Thank you very much. Last night, I returned from a historic 12-day trip to Asia. This journey took us to five nations to meet with dozens of foreign leaders, participate in three formal state visits, and attend three key regional summits. It was the longest visit to the region by an American President in more than a quarter of a century. Everywhere we went, our foreign hosts greeted the American delegation, myself included, with incredible warmth, hospitality, and most importantly respect. And this great respect showed very well our country is — further evidence that America’s renewed confidence and standing in the world has never been stronger than it is right now. When we are confident in ourselves, our strength, our flag, our history, our values — other nations are confident in us. And when we treat our citizens with the respect they deserve, other countries treat America with the respect that our country so richly deserves. During our travels, this is exactly what the world saw: a strong, proud, and confident America. Today, I want to update the American people on the tremendous success of this trip and the progress we’ve made to advance American security and prosperity throughout the year. When I came into office, our country was faced with a series of growing dangers. These threats included rogue regimes pursuing deadly weapons, foreign powers challenging America’s influence, the spread of the murderous terror group ISIS, and years of unfair trade practices that had dangerously depleted our manufacturing base and wiped out millions and millions of middle-class jobs. The challenges were inherited, and these products really showed what previous mistakes were made over many years — and even decades — by other administrations. Some of these mistakes were born of indifference and neglect. Others from naïve thinking and misguided judgement. In some cases, the negative influence of partisan politics and special interests was to blame. But the one common thread behind all of these problems was a failure to protect and promote the interests of the American people and American workers. Upon my inauguration, I pledged that we would rebuild America, restore its economic strength, and defend its national security. With this goal in mind, I vowed that we would reaffirm old alliances and form new friendships in pursuit of shared goals. Above all, I swore that in every decision, with every action, I would put the best interests of the American people first. Over the past 10 months, traveling across the globe and meeting with world leaders, that is exactly what I have done. Earlier this year, in Saudi Arabia, I spoke to the leaders of more than 50 Arab and Muslim nations about our strategy to defeat terrorists by stripping them of financing, territory, and ideological support. And I urged the leaders to drive out the terrorists and extremists from their societies. Since that time, we have dealt ISIS one crushing defeat after another. In Israel, I reaffirmed the unbreakable bond between America and the Jewish State, and I met with leaders of the Palestinian Authority and initiated an effort to facilitate lasting peace between the Israelis and the Palestinians. In Brussels, I urged our NATO allies to do more to strengthen our crucial alliance and set the stage for significant increases in member contributions. Billions and billions of dollars are pouring in because of that initiative. NATO, believe me, is very happy with Donald Trump and what I did. In Warsaw, I declared to the world America’s resolve to preserve and protect Western civilization and the values we hold so dear. In Rome, Sicily, Hamburg, and Paris, I strengthened our friendships with key allies to promote our shared interests of security and prosperity. In September, at the United Nations General Assembly in New York, I urged that the nations of the world join in confronting rogue regimes that threaten humanity and laid out a model for international cooperation grounded in respect for sovereignty and the responsibilities that come with it. On each trip, I have worked to advance American interests and leadership in the world. And to each of these places, I have carried our vision for a better — a vision for something stronger and sovereign — so important — sovereign and independent nations, rooted in their histories, confident in their destinies, and cooperating together to advance their security, prosperity, and the noble cause of peace. It was this same vision that I carried to Asia two weeks ago. And it was this same commitment to you, the American people, that was always at the forefront of my mind and my thinking. Our trip was defined by three core goals. First: to unite the world against the nuclear menace posed by the North Korean regime, a threat that has increased steadily through many administrations and now requires urgent action. Second: to strengthen America’s alliances and economic partnerships in a free and open Indo-Pacific, made up of thriving, independent nations, respectful of other countries and their own citizens, and safe from foreign domination and economic servitude. And third: to finally — after many years — insist on fair and reciprocal trade. Fair and reciprocal trade — so important. These two words — fairness and reciprocity — are an open invitation to every country that seeks to do business with the United States, and they are a firm warning to every country that cheats, breaks the rules, and engages in economic aggression — like they’ve been doing in the past, especially in the recent past. That is why we have almost an $800-billion-a-year trade deficit with other nations. Unacceptable. We are going to start whittling that down, and as fast as possible. With these goals, it was my profound honor to travel on this journey as your representative. I explained to all of the world leaders, and across Asia, how well the United States is doing. Economic growth has been over 3 percent the last two quarters and is going higher. Unemployment is at its lowest level in 17 years. The stock market has gained trillions of dollars in value since my election and has reached record highs. We are massively increasing our military budget to historic levels. The House has just passed a nearly $700 billion defense package, and it could not come at a better time for our nation. Once again our country is optimistic about the future, confident in our values, and proud of our history and a role in the world. I want to thank every citizen of this country for the part you have played in making this great American comeback possible. In Asia, our message was clear and well received: America is here to compete, to do business, and to defend our values and our security. We began our trip in Hawaii to pay our respects to brave American servicemembers at Pearl Harbor and the United States Pacific Command, the guardian of our security and freedom across the Indo-Pacific region. As our country prepared to observe Veterans Day, we remembered the incredible sacrifices and courage of all of the veterans whose service has preserved our liberty and a way of life that is very special. We also thanked military families for their support for our brave servicemen and women. From Hawaii, we traveled to Japan, a crucial U.S. ally and partner in the region. Upon landing in Japan, my first act was to thank the American servicemembers and Japanese Self-Defense Forces who personify the strength of our enduring alliance. Prime Minister Abe and I agreed on our absolute determination to remain united to achieve the goal of denuclearized North Korea. Shortly following our visit, Japan announced additional sanctions on 35 North Korean entities and individuals. Japan also committed to shouldering more of the burden of our common defense by reimbursing costs borne by American taxpayers, as well as by making deep investments in Japan’s own military. This will include purchases of U.S. advanced capabilities — from jet fighters to missile defense systems worth many, many billions of dollars — and jobs for the American worker. The Prime Minister and I also discussed ways we can deepen our trade relationship based on the core principles of fairness and reciprocity. I am pleased that since January of this year, Japanese companies have announced investments in the United States worth more than $8 billion — 17,000 jobs. Thank you. Oh, they don’t have water? That’s okay. What? That’s okay. Japanese manufacturers, Toyota and Mazda, announced that they will be opening a new plant in the United States that will create 4,000 jobs. We also signed agreements between our nations to enhance infrastructure development, increase access to affordable energy, and advance our foreign policy goals through economic investment. From Japan, we traveled to another key American ally in Asia — the Republic of Korea. My official state visit to South Korea was the first by an American President in 25 years. Speaking before the National Assembly of the Republic of Korea, I spoke the truth about the evil crimes of the North Korean regime, and I made clear that we will not allow this twisted dictatorship to hold the world hostage to nuclear blackmail. I called on every nation, including China and Russia, to unite in isolating the North Korean regime — cutting off all ties of trade and commerce — until it stops its dangerous provocation on — and this is the whole key to what we’re doing — on denuclearization. We have to denuclearize North Korea. We have ended the failed strategy of strategic patience, and, as a result, we have already seen important progress — including tough new sanctions from the U.N. council — we have a Security Council that has been with us and just about with us from the beginning. South Korea agreed to harmonize sanctions and joined the United States in sanctioning additional rogue actors whose fund and funds have helped North Korea and North Korea’s nuclear and ballistic missile programs. It’s unacceptable to us. The United States welcomed the decision of President Moon to remove the payload restrictions on missiles to combat the North Korean threat. And together we reaffirmed our commitment to a campaign of maximum pressure. Like Japan, South Korea is increasing its defense contributions. During our meetings, President Moon acknowledged his desire for equitable cost-sharing for the United States military forces stationed in South Korea. And I visited soldiers at Camp Humphreys, a brand-new, joint American-South Korean base, paid for almost entirely by the South Korean government. At that base, I discussed with the United States and South Korean military leaders both military options and readiness to respond to North Korean provocation or offensive actions. During our visit, President Moon and I also discussed America’s commitment to reducing our trade deficit with South Korea. At my discretion and direction, we are currently renegotiating the disastrous U.S.-Korea trade agreement signed under the previous administration. It has been a disaster for the United States. Last week, 42 South Korean companies announced their intent to invest in projects worth more than $17 billion dollars in the United States, and 24 companies announced plans to purchase $58 billion dollars in American goods and services. From South Korea, Melania and I traveled to China, where, as in Japan and South Korea, we were greatly honored by the splendor of our reception. Our trip included the first official dinner held for a foreign leader in the Forbidden City since the founding of the modern China, where we enjoyed a very productive evening hosted by President Xi and his wonderful wife, Madam Peng. During our visit, President Xi pledged to faithfully implement United Nations Security Council resolutions on North Korea and to use his great economic influence over the regime to achieve our common goal of a denuclearized Korean Peninsula. President Xi recognizes that a nuclear North Korea is a grave threat to China, and we agreed that we would not accept a so-called “freeze for freeze” agreement like those that have consistently failed in the past. We made that time is running out and we made it clear, and all options remain on the table. I also had very candid conversations with President Xi about the need to reduce our staggering trade deficit with China and for our trading relationship to be conducted on a truly fair and equitable basis. We can no longer tolerate unfair trading practices that steal American jobs, wealth, and intellectual property. The days of the United States being taken advantage of are over. In China, we also announced $250 billion worth in trade-investment deals that will create jobs in the United States. From China, I flew to the city of Da Nang in Vietnam, to attend the Leaders Meeting for APEC — Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation. There, I spoke to a major gathering of business leaders, where I reminded the world of America’s historic role in the Pacific as a force for freedom and for peace. Standing on this proud history, I offered our vision for robust trading relationships in which Indo-Pacific nations can all prosper and grow together. I announced that the United States is ready to make bilateral trade deals with any nation in the region that wants to be our partner in fair and reciprocal trade. We will never again turn a blind eye to trading abuses, to cheating, economic aggression, or anything else from countries that profess a belief in open trade, but do not follow the rules or live by its principles themselves. No international trading organization can function if members are allowed to exploit the openness of others for unfair economic gain. Trade abuses harm the United States and its workers — but no more. No more. We will take every trade action necessary to achieve the fair and reciprocal treatment that the United States has offered to the rest of the world for decades. My message has resonated. The 21 APEC leaders — for the first time ever — recognized the importance of fair and reciprocal trade, recognized the need to address unfair trade practices, and acknowledged that the WTO is in strong need of reform. These leaders also noted that countries must do a better job following the rules to which they agreed. I also made very clear that the United States will promote a free and open Indo-Pacific in which nations enjoy the independence and respect they deserve. In Vietnam, during a state visit in Hanoi, I also met with President Quang and Prime Minister Fook to discuss the growing friendship between our countries. Our Vietnamese partners are taking new actions to enforce sanctions on North Korea. In addition, we committed to expand trade and investment between our countries, and we pledged to address the imbalances. I am particularly pleased that the United States and Vietnam recently announced $12 billion in commercial agreements, which will include $10 billion in U.S. content. Finally, I visited the Philippines, where I met with numerous world leaders at the U.S.-ASEAN and East Asia Summits. At ASEAN — the Association of Southeast Asian Nations — we made it clear that no one owns the ocean. Freedom of navigation and overflight are critical to the security and prosperity of all nations. I also met with the Prime Ministers of India, Australia, and Japan to discuss our shared commitment to a free and open Indo-Pacific. During our visit, President Duterte of the Philippines thanked the American people and our armed forces for supporting the recent liberation of Marawi from ISIS. We pledged to strengthen and deepen our long-standing alliance. At the East Asia Summit, the United States negotiated and signed four important leaders’ statements on the use of chemical weapons, money laundering, poverty alleviation, and countering terrorist propaganda and financing. And crucially, at both summits and throughout the trip, we asked all nations to support our campaign of maximum pressure for North Korean denuclearization. And they are responding by cutting trade with North Korea, restricting financial ties to the regime, and expelling North Korean diplomats and workers. Over the last two weeks, we have made historic strides in reasserting American leadership, restoring American security, and reawakening American confidence. Everywhere we went, I reaffirmed our vision for cooperation between proud, independent and sovereign countries — and I made clear that the United States will be a reliable friend, a strong partner, and a powerful advocate for its own citizens. The momentum from our trip will launch us on our continued effort to accomplish the three core objectives I outlined: to unite the world against North Korean nuclear threat, to promote a free and open Indo-Pacific region, and to advance fair and reciprocal economic relations with our trading partners and allies in the region. We have established a new framework for trade that will ensure reciprocity through enforcement actions, reform of international organizations, and new fair trade deals that benefit the United States and our partners. And we have laid out a pathway toward peace and security in our world where sovereign nations can thrive, flourish, and prosper side-by-side. This is our beautiful vision for the future. This is a where this vision — this dream — is only possible if America is strong, proud, and free. As long as we are true to ourselves, faithful to our founding, and loyal to our citizens, then there is no task too great, no dream too large, no goal beyond our reach. My fellow citizens: America is back. And the future has never looked brighter. Thank you. God Bless you and God Bless the United States of America. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you all. END 3:56 P.M. EST
— to the plane now. We’ll be going back to Washington. We’ll make some comments probably tomorrow afternoon, only because we have to let the media recover. They want to recover. When I said we’ll do it on Wednesday morning, they all said, will we do it later than that? So I’m going to do that for the media. So maybe Wednesday afternoon or maybe Thursday morning, whichever is most convenient. But we’ve had a tremendously successful trip. Tremendous amounts of work was done on trade, not only on the deals — and we have at least $300 billion worth of deals, but that will be, I think, way triple that number in a fairly short period of time. But I think much more importantly, we’ve explained that the United States is open for trade, but we want reciprocal trade. We want fair trade for the United States, because with past administrations — as I said in China and I said very loud and very clear — the United States has been taken advantage of. They’re very giving, and they don’t get in return. So we want fair trade. We want reciprocal trade. And we’ll see a lot of great things happen. We’re also very open — we’re open for trade. But we have to be treated fairly. We have to be treated in a reciprocal fashion. So it’s been an incredible 12 days. I’ve enjoyed it immensely. I’ve made a lot of friends at the highest level, whether it’s China and the incredible opening they gave us — that unbelievable evening. People really have never seen anything like it — going to the Forbidden City and a theater that hadn’t been open in over 100 years, and the level of talent that we watched. It was really something special. And then we had great meetings in China. And Japan, likewise — it was a tremendous rollout. And from the moment we walked off the plane and back on to the plane — in South Korea, as you know, we made the speech. I believe seldom has there been the opportunity to speak for somebody from the outside world in that hall. So South Korea was terrific to us, and we obviously talked about North Korea. We talked about trade. We talked about lots of different things. But, certainly, in South Korea and Japan, a primary emphasis was on North Korea. And coming to the Philippines was terrific, and coming to Vietnam was terrific. Vietnam is ordering at least $12 billion worth of Boeings, and I think they were going a different route. But now they’re going the route of ordering from us. And the reason I like the Boeing is because it’s jobs for the United States. It’s not jobs for somebody else. It’s jobs for the United States. Vietnam treated us incredibly, as did — I mean, the Philippines, we just could not have been treated nicer. And as you know, we were having a lot of problems with the Philippines. The relationship with the past administration was horrible, to use a nice word. I would say “horrible” is putting it mildly. You know what happened. Many of you were there, and you never got to land. The plane came close but it didn’t land. And now we have a very, very strong relationship with the Philippines, which is really important — less so for trade, in this case, than for military purposes. It is a strategic location — the most strategic location. And, if you look at it, it’s called the most prime piece of real estate from a military standpoint. So it’s very important that we get along with the Philippines, and we really do. We have a very good relationship. I would actually say probably better than ever before. So we’ve accomplished a lot. I’ve enjoyed it very much. My press — I feel so sorry for them. They’re exhausted. Would you like to stop in another couple of countries? Because we can do that if you want. Otherwise, we’ll go to the plane and we’ll take off. But we’ll be landing in Washington in about 22 hours. So I appreciate everybody. And I very much appreciate your time. I know how hard you worked also. We all worked hard. But I think the fruits of our labor are going to be incredible, whether it’s security of our nations, whether it’s security of the world, or whether it’s trade. And it’s going to really amount to a lot. Thank you all very much. I appreciate it. Thank you. END 2:48 P.M. PHT
It’s been a really great 12 days. And I made a lot of great friends. You’ve probably heard the closing remarks, but we made a lot of great friends. So we look forward to going back, but we really enjoyed it. We really enjoyed it. Q And we left a little early or something. What happened here? No, we had a lunch, and I was able to make my final remarks at the lunch. Q Oh, you were. Okay. Yeah. Q We didn’t hear that. Can you kind, maybe, summarize — The opening remarks? I could give them to you if you want. Q The lunch. Yeah, that would — Oh, the lunch was great. Everybody was there. They were delayed three hours, as you probably heard. There was a delay for some reason. But we had a lunch, and they let me make my opening — my ending remarks at the lunch. So that was really great. But we’re leaving pretty much on time I think. Right? How’s that? Pretty much on time? Q Yeah, a little early. Kept us pretty much on time. Q Are you proud of the trip? Very proud of it from a standpoint of security and safety, military — very proud — and trade. You will see numbers that you won’t believe over the years. Because over a period of years, they will be treating us much differently than they have in the past. People were taking advantage — countries were taking advantage of the United States, more than just this region, but the world. And those days are over. We’re going to be fair, we’re going to be reciprocal. As I said in my remarks before: We will be reciprocal, meaning if they’re doing it, we’re doing it. And that’s the way it’s going to be. Q If you had to point to one thing that you feel like you accomplished, that you got done that you could tell the American about, what is it? Well, I think we made a lot of progress, just in terms of relationship. We actually sold $300 billion worth of equipment and other things. And I think that number is going to be quadrupled very quickly. So that’s over a trillion dollars’ worth of stuff. I think we have done a really fantastic job. It’s been a great trip. It’s also been really good, in terms of North Korea and getting everybody together. I think their acts are all together. China has been excellent. Japan and South Korea have been excellent. I think that’s a very important part of the trip. And the other important part to me was trade and relationships. The Philippines is an unbelievably important military location because if you speak to the admirals and you speak to the generals, that’s a perfect spot. And, as you know, we had no relationship for a long period of time in the Philippines, and now we have a very good relationship there. We’re back with the Philippines. So, strategically, we have a very important location — maybe the most important strategic location in that area. So it’s good. We had a great time. I hope you guys are all okay. You all look well. Go to sleep for a little while, and we’ll be around. We’ll talk to you later. The basketball players, by the way — I know a lot of people are asking — I will tell you, when I heard about it two days ago, I had a great conversation with President Xi. What they did was unfortunate. You know, you’re talking about very long prison sentences. They do not play games. He was terrific, and they’re working on it right now. And hopefully everything is going to work out. And I know they’re very grateful because they were told exactly what happened. Q Is he helping out? Is he helping out? But it’s a very, very rough situation with what happened to them. And I was with him — yes, he is. And he’s been terrific. President Xi has been terrific on that subject. But that was not a good subject. That was not something that should have happened. Okay, folks. Go rest. Q Do you expect to see them coming home soon? I hope so. I hope so. Q Can you say what you might announce on Thursday, or Wednesday, at the White House? Well, I think we’re going to go into details of what I said. Were you there before, when I — I think we’ll be going into some more details as to what we’re doing, as to what we accomplished. But, specifically, deals, concepts. And we’ll be pinpointing things. But, you know, it’s minimum $300 billion, and that’s going to be very quickly over a trillion dollars, that in itself. And I would say that’s the least significant thing that we accomplished. I think one of the things we really accomplished big is relationship, and also letting people know that from now on, things are going to be reciprocal. We can’t have trade deficits of $30, $40, $50 billion; $300 billion in the case of China. We can’t do that. We have to have reciprocal trade. What’s good for them is good for us. Q Why are those relationships so important? And is there a risk of getting too close to President Xi? Well, relationship is always important. It doesn’t mean it’s necessarily close. It’s really a relationship based on respect. To me, a relationship based on respect is much more important than anything else, including friendship. Because this is really something — they have to respect our country. And they have not respected our country for a long period of time. Thank you all very much. Have a good time. Thank you. END 3:23 P.M. PHT
President Duterte, distinguished leaders, friends and partners: I’m honored to represent the United States of America at this U.S.-ASEAN Commemorative Summit. We gather today at a time of great promise and great challenge. I speak to you on behalf of 350 million Americans with a message of friendship and partnership. I’m here to advance peace, to promote security, and to work with you to achieve a truly free and open Indo-Pacific, where we are proud and we have sovereign nations, and we thrive, and everybody wants to prosper. This year we mark 40 years of friendship and cooperation between the United States and this organization. It’s a long time. I also want to congratulate ASEAN on 50 years of promoting peace and prosperity and stability in Southeast Asia and in the broader Indo-Pacific region. Rodrigo, I would like to commend you on your success as ASEAN chair at this very critical moment in time and in the association’s history — such an important event. And I want to thank you for your incredible hospitality. And the show last night, the talent at that show — I assume mostly from the Philippines — was fantastic. Thank you. And you were fantastic, also, very much, from the Philippines. We couldn’t tell the difference. I send the people of the Philippines warm greetings from the people of the United States. I also want to thank Prime Minister Najib of Malaysia for the excellent job you’ve done as coordinator, and I appreciate it very much. I really appreciate it. You have coordinated so well with us. For five decades, this organization has brought together a vital assembly of nations to build consensus on critical issues facing the region and the world. You have created a forum for all nations with a stake in the Indo-Pacific to listen, learn, and develop solutions to common challenges through strategic dialogue. The United States remains committed to ASEAN’s central role as a regional forum for total cooperation. This diplomatic partnership advances the security and prosperity of the American people and the people of all Indo-Pacific nations. In recent decades, nations across the region have built strong societies, robust economies, and vibrant communities of citizens. Really proud — totally proud, always — of their heritage, and confident in who they are. Today, we celebrate your incredible success, and we also seek economic partnerships on the basis of fairness and reciprocity. As the world knows, the United States, since our election on November 8th, has been moving ahead really brilliantly on an economic basis. We have the highest stock market we’ve ever had. We have the lowest unemployment in 17 years. The value of stocks has risen $5.5 trillion. And companies are moving into the United States. A lot of companies are moving. They’re moving back. They want to be there. The enthusiasm levels are the highest ever recorded on the charts. So we’re very happy about that, and we think that bodes very well for your region because of the relationship that we have. So we want our partners in the region to be strong, independent, and prosperous, in control of their own destinies, and satellites to no one. These are the principles behind our vision for a free and open Indo-Pacific. So again, I wish you all the best of luck. It’s an honor to be here. And, Rodrigo, thank you very much for the way you treated all of us. Thank you. END 3:02 P.M. PHT
Well, thank you very much. You are a man of great honor and respect, and it’s an honor to be with you. And thank you for having us. And we want to thank Vietnam and the Vietnamese people. They have been so terrific. They greeted us with such respect and, really, such affection. The relationship is so healed. And to think where we were and where we’ve come is a tribute to both countries. We have so many things in common. We have been discussing at great length, today and yesterday, trade — and trade, in particular, with Vietnam. And we’re opening up and you’re opening up, and it’s going to even out. And we’re both going to do very well for our people. Trade has become a very important element of our relationship and it will continue onward. And again, I want to thank you very much for this. It is a true honor to be with you. Thank you. END 11:11 A.M. ICT
Well, thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. I want to start by saying that the job done by Vietnam and your representatives, including yourself, the President, and everybody that I met — so many — is outstanding with respect to APEC. This was hosted so beautifully, so professionally. I got to tour parts of Vietnam, and it’s really looking well. It’s looking beautiful. And the people are happy, and the people are waving, and they like the United States; perhaps they like me. But they were really lined up in the streets by the tens of thousands, and we very much appreciate that. You are right — I believe this is the longest tour ever made by an American President of Asia. I’m now going for a day and a half to the Philippines, and then it will be back home to Washington and the United States. But we have really enjoyed ourselves in Vietnam, and we very much appreciate it. Important to me is trade, because right now we have a very substantial trade imbalance with Vietnam — approximately $32 billion, which is a tremendous amount of money. And we have to take care of our American companies and we have to take care of American workers. And perhaps the administrations previous to me didn’t like the subject, understand the subject — something was wrong — because there are so many problems having to do with trade imbalance. So we want to get that straightened out very quickly. We would like you to buy your equipment from the United States. We make the best equipment, we make the best military gear and planes and anything you can name. The missiles are in a category that nobody even comes close. I told before, as you know, a missile was shot into Saudi Arabia recently, from Yemen. And one of our missile systems knocked it down. Nobody even knew what happened. And the missile exploded in air; knocked it down like nothing. We make the greatest missiles in the world, greatest planes in the world, greatest commercial aircraft in the world. So we would like Vietnam to buy from us, and we have to get rid of the trade imbalance. We can’t have the trade imbalance. Other than that, I think we’re going to have a fantastic relationship, and I look forward to it for many years to come. Thank you. END 11:39 A.M. ICT
Well, thank you very much. And I appreciate it. And I appreciate the incredible rollout that they’ve given to the United States — not just the President of the United States, but the United States as a whole. We’ve had an incredible day in Vietnam. The APEC meeting started it out, and that was a tremendous success. And thank you very much for hosting it. I want to just wish my best in condolences for the situation that you have with Damrey. That was tough. That was very, very tough. And I know you’re handling it well. And our best wishes and condolences. We also want to thank you for helping us with the U.S. embassy site where we have a new embassy. And it will be something that, I think, will be very good for the future and the future of our two countries. The North Korean situation continues to be a problem. I think that China — as you know, we saw — we were in China yesterday and the day before. And President Xi, I think, is going to be a tremendous help. I hope Russia, likewise, will be a tremendous help. I think they can make a big difference. I know that South Korea and Japan are very much unified in the sense that they want to be able to take care of a problem that’s right next to them. Really, they’re neighbors. And I appreciate all of the good work you’re doing with regard to the North Korean problem. South China Sea — as you know, we’re looking at — we’re looking at it together. If I could help mediate or arbitrate, please let me know. I know we’ve had a dispute for quite a while with China. If I can help in any way, I’m a very good mediator and a very good arbitrator. I have done plenty of it from both sides. So if I can help you, let me know. Our defense ties are terrific. We’re doing a lot of business with you in terms of your purchasing of materials and also purchasing of very substantial military equipment. And we appreciate that. It’s jobs for America, and you get the best equipment in the world. Nobody makes it like we make it. And I think that more than anything else, this will be a meeting of trade. We will be a great trade partner, and whether we’ll be treated fairly — past administrations didn’t understand trade and didn’t know too much about what was going on with trade. But we do. But we also know how to do a lot of trade. So I think it’s going to very, very good for Vietnam. And, Mr. President, I just again want to thank you for being so respectful and nice to my entire delegation and to its President. And on behalf of the United States of America, we wish you very well and a great respect for what Vietnam has been able to accomplish and do in a very, very short period of time. So I want to give you a personal congratulations. Thank you very much. END 9:19 A.M. ICT
Everybody okay? Everybody happy? Everybody healthy? Two more days — no problem. It’s been a — I think it’s been a great trip. In certain ways, it’s been very epic. I think things have happened that have been really amazing. Prime Minister Abe came up to me just at the end, and he said that since you left South Korea and Japan, that those two countries are now getting along much, much better. That’s from Prime Minister Abe — that there’s been a real bonding between South Korea and Japan. So that was great. And we had a time in China. You were there. Were most of you there? Jennifer? Q We all were, sir. They say in the history of people coming to China, there’s been nothing like that. And I believe it. Did you see the show? Did most of you see the show or part of the show afterwards? It was incredible. Q We saw the opera but not the — The opera was great too, but the following night — that was the first time that theater has been used at the Forbidden City in over a hundred years. You know that. They prepared the theater for that — the first time in over a hundred years. No, it was an amazing — we have an amazing feeling toward each other. And he’s for China; I’m for USA. You know, it’s one of those things. But we have a great feeling. So it’s been really very incredible. And then today was excellent. Today was a different kind of a thing. It’s a conference. And then tonight they’re having a state dinner in Hanoi. And we then go to the Philippines, which was a rough trip the last time. That was a rough presidential trip, but this won’t be. And we’re staying the extra day because they have the two conferences; they have first day and they have the second day. And the second day, a lot of people say is very important. And I said, you know what, if I’m there, I should do it. But it’s gone really well. I’ve really enjoyed it. Developed some new friendships — some really good friendships. But the three countries we’ve stopped in, the original three are — they’re really in our camp, and we’re in their camp. Q How were your discussions with Vladimir Putin? Did you discuss Syria? And apparently they’ve issued a joint statement that — We issued a joint statement. We’re going to be — have you seen the statement yet? So I think it’ll go out. You’ll see it in a little while. It’s going to save tremendous numbers of lives. And we did that very quickly. We agreed very quickly. As you know, we saw each other last night just for a picture, and that was the first time. And then today we had a roundtable with numerous countries. You have a list of the countries, obviously. Right? You have a list. And we spoke intermittently during that roundtable. We seem to have a very good feeling for each other and a good relationship considering we don’t know each other well. I think it’s a very good relationship. We had two or three very short conversations because of the meeting, the fact that we’re at a meeting. But during those conversations, we talked about Syria and de-conflicting, et cetera. You know, we have areas where troops are facing — our troops — I mean, their troops are facing our troops and there’s nothing in between. And we issued a statement — a joint statement. It was just approved, and I think people are going to be extremely happy with it and also very impressed with it. Q Did Russia’s attempts to meddle in U.S. elections come up in the conversation? He said he didn’t meddle. He said he didn’t meddle. I asked him again. You can only ask so many times. But I just asked him again, and he said he absolutely did not meddle in our election. He did not do what they’re saying he did. And he said — Q Do you believe him? Well, look, I can’t stand there and argue with him. I’d rather have him get out of Syria, to be honest with you. I’d rather have him — you know, work with him on the Ukraine than standing and arguing about whether or not — because that whole thing was set up by the Democrats. I mean, they ought to look at Podesta. They ought to look at all of the things that they’ve done with the phony dossier. Those are the big events. Those are the big events. But Putin said he did not do what they said he did. And, you know, there are those that say, if he did do it, he wouldn’t have gotten caught, all right? Which is a very interesting statement. But we have a — you know, we have a good feeling toward getting things done. If we had a relationship with Russia, that would be a good thing. In fact, it would be a great thing, not a bad thing. Because he could really help us in North Korea. We have a big problem with North Korea. And China is helping us. And because of the lack of a relationship that we have with Russia because of this artificial thing that’s happening with this Democratic-inspired thing, we could really be helped a lot, tremendously, with Russia having to do with North Korea. And, you know, you’re talking about millions and millions of lives. This isn’t baby stuff. This is the real deal. And if Russia helped us, in addition to China, that problem would go away a lot faster. Q How did you bring up the issue of election meddling? Did you ask him a question? He just — every time he sees me, he says, “I didn’t do that.” And I believe — I really believe that when he tells me that, he means it. But he says, “I didn’t do that.” I think he’s very insulted by it, if you want to know the truth. Don’t forget, all he said is he never did that, he didn’t do that. I think he’s very insulted by it, which is not a good thing for our country. Because again, if we had a relationship with Russia, North Korea — which is our single biggest problem right now — North Korea, it would be helped a lot. I think I’m doing very well with respect to China. They’ve cut off financing; they’ve cut off bank lines; they’ve cut off lots of oil and lots of other things, lots of trade. And it’s having a big impact. But Russia, on the other hand, may be making up the difference. And if they are, that’s not a good thing. So having a relationship with Russia would be a great thing — not a good thing — it would be a great thing, especially as it relates to North Korea. And I’ll say this, Hillary had her stupid reset button that she spelled the word wrong, but she doesn’t have what it takes to have that kind of a relationship where you could call or you could do something and they would pull back from North Korea, or they’d pull back from Syria, or maybe pull back from Ukraine. I mean, if we could solve the Ukraine problem — But this is really an artificial barrier that’s put in front of us for solving problems with Russia, and he says that very strongly. He really seems to be insulted by it, and he says he didn’t do it. So — Q do you believe him — Excuse me? Q Even if he one-on-one, do you believe him? I think that he is very, very strong in the fact that he didn’t do it. And then you look, and you look at what’s going on with Podesta, and you look at what’s going on with the server from the DNC and why didn’t the FBI take it, why did they leave it; why did a third party look at the server and not the FBI — if you look at all of this stuff, and you say, what’s going on here? And then you hear it’s 17 agencies. Well, it’s three. And one is Brennan and one is whatever. I mean, give me a break. They’re political hacks. So you look at it — I mean, you have Brennan, you have Clapper, and you have Comey. Comey is proven now to be a liar and he’s proven to be a leaker. So you look at that, and you have President Putin very strongly, vehemently says he had nothing to do with that. Now, you’re not going to get into an argument. You’re going to start talking about Syria and the Ukraine. Q You seem to have a fairly warm relationship with a number of — I do. Q — totalitarian or authoritarian leaders — And others. Q And others. So, Putin, Xi, leader of the Philippines. Do you think you — what do you think — do you think you understand them in a certain way or relate to them in a way that other Presidents haven’t? I don’t know. They had a story today in one of the papers about China. China likes me. China likes me. And I get along with them; I get along with others too. I get along very well with Angela. You people don’t write that. I actually get along really well with Angela. You know, they had that handshaking event. I was with her for a long time before that. And somebody shouts out, “shake her hand, shake her hand.” And I didn’t hear them. So by not shaking her hand, they said — I have a great relationship with her. I have a great relationship with Theresa May. I have a great relationship with Justin Trudeau, who I just left. I think I — I’ll be honest with you, I think I have a great relationship with every single one of them. Every person in that room today — you had what, 15, or so, or 18? Asia Pacific — Q Well, 21 including you. Everyone in that room, I have a good relationship. They’re very different people, but everyone. And I do have a very good relationship with Xi, obviously. It’s the biggest state — it’s the biggest state entrance and the biggest state dinner they’ve ever had, by far, in China. He called it a state-plus. Like he said it — he actually said, state-plus-plus, which is very interesting. But he’s — you know, look, again, he’s a strong person. He’s a very smart person. I like him a lot; he likes me. But, you know, we represent two very different countries. But we get along very well. And that’s a good thing that we along; that’s not a bad thing. And on trade, you know, it was — most of the news covered it fairly. Some didn’t. When I said it’s not your fault — because I was saying how China has been hurting us on trade for many decades, for many years — and it really is. It’s not his fault. We should have been doing that. But we didn’t do it. It’s the fault of the administrations that preceded me. And we’re not going to do that anymore; we’re going to be very tough on trade. And he understands that. Q In the past, American presidents have felt the obligation to raise issues about human rights abuses. Do you feel like that’s an obligation and that’s something that you feel is important to do? Well, I do. But I also raise issues on many other things. I mean, I have an obligation — we lost, last year, with China, depending on the way you do your numbers, because you can do them a numbers of way — anywhere from $350 to $504 billion. That’s with one country. I’m going to fix that. And I’ve got to fix what we have with Mexico, who was there today too, who I also have a very good relationship with. And I have a great relationship with France. Some of you were in France with me, with the Eiffel Tower dinner. We have a great relationship with Emmanuel. So I think that’s the thing. I’ve actually been getting — I always said it, I think — I said, I think one of my strong suits is going to be foreign affairs. And we’re actually getting very good marks having to do with foreign affairs. There’s nobody that I can think of that I don’t have a very good relationship with. But when we can — I mean, you’ll be seeing the release that’s put out. But we can save many, many, many lives by making a deal with Russia having to do with Syria, and then ultimately getting Syria solved and getting Ukraine solved and doing other things, having a good relationship with Russia is a great, great thing. And this artificial Democratic hit job gets in the way. It gets in the way. And that’s a shame because people will die because of it. And it’s a pure hit job. And it’s artificially induced. And it’s a shame. But anyway. Q If we could ask you about Roy Moore. Is it time to pitch him overboard? Well, again, I’ve been with you folks, so I haven’t gotten to see too much. And believe it or not, even when I’m in Washington and New York, I do not watch much television. I know they like to say — people that don’t know me, they like to say I watch television. People with fake sources — you know, fake reporters, fake sources. But I don’t get to watch much television, primarily because of documents. I’m reading documents a lot, and different things. I actually read much more — I read you people much more than I watch television. But anyway — but so I have not seen very much about him, about it. And, you know, I put out a statement yesterday that he’ll do the right thing, that — he was interviewed. Q But four women have come forward and accused him of inappropriately touching them, basically making advances when they were underage, including a 14-year-old. I mean, at what point — and you said, “if he did it.” But at what point do you decide if he did it? It’s right now their word against his. Honestly, I’d have to look at it and I’d have to see. Because again, I’m dealing with the President of China, the President of Russia, I’m dealing with the folks over here. So I haven’t devoted — I haven’t been able to devote very much time to it. And I’ve been at — I mean, you people are just as strong as me. You’re following me all over the place. I mean, we are going to lots of meetings, right? And, by the way, anybody that took the bet, pick up your money, okay? And the hard stuff was that. Really hard. Q What was the bet again? Well, a lot of people said it’s almost physically impossible for someone to go through 12 days. What I didn’t want to do was come back because I would have had to come back. And we would have been on this plane again in five weeks from now exactly to do four days. We were going to do four days and four days. And this way we did twelve, and we hit the big conferences, which is a big asset. So anyway. Q So you’re not yet prepared to say that Roy Moore should — I will see it when — I mean, I basically put out a statement which was obvious. So I’ll stick with statement for now, but I’ll have further comment as we go down the road. I have to get back into the country to see what’s happening. Q Is there one thing that you were pressing President Xi on that you can say you’re going to take away, where he changed his mind or agreed to something that you’re looking to do specifically on North Korea? President Xi made a statement. If you read his statement yesterday — were you all there when he was speaking and made the statement in the big room — the Great Room? He made a statement that he’s committed to stopping the nuclearization of North Korea. That’s a big statement. He made that statement, and a lot of people didn’t — they didn’t pick that up. I don’t think it was — because it was part of the speech. And somehow a lot people — to me, that was a very big statement. I even looked up — because I’m sitting waiting to speak — and I said, wow, that’s a big statement. He made that statement in his speech yesterday or the day before, when he made — you know, when we were speaking together. He put a statement out, Sarah, that said he’s committed to making that happen. That’s a big statement. You know, he was, through this process — he’s the most powerful Chinese leader since Mao Zedong. Some people say more powerful than Mao. With that being said, I really believe he’s a good person, he’s a good man, he wants to do right, he’s representing his people. He’s strong, he’s very strong. But you know, you look at some of what you saw was very impressive. It was very impressive. Q What’s the next thing you’d like to see him do on Korea? Oh, I’d like to have him ratchet it up, and I think he’s doing that. We had a long talk about it. Q But ratchet it up with what? And I was with him for hours. You know, I was with him — like I sat with him. You were there at the beginning of that evening, right? Of the — Q No. Oh, really? Q I wasn’t pool. Well, I was sitting with him. We were together for hours. And the day before, we were together for hours. And we get along very well. You know, it’s easy to be with him for hours. Whereas, if you don’t have chemistry, you people know, you can’t be with somebody for two minutes. And we talked a lot about North Korea. We talked about a lot of things. We talked a lot about North Korea. No, I think he’s going to ratchet it up. I did not speak to President Putin about it because we just had these little segments that we were talking about Syria. But President Putin would be tremendously helpful — tremendously helpful — if I had Russia and China helping us with North Korea, I think that would solve it. But this artificial barrier gets in the way. I call it the “artificial Democrat barrier.” It gets in the way, which is a shame. Q So you didn’t have time to ask Putin specific things on North Korea? I wasn’t able to — because I really didn’t, Jennifer. I really just — we did, like, little snippets in between. We didn’t have a planned meeting. We spoke, but we didn’t have a planned meeting. Q Where did you leave it with President Putin? Are you looking for another meeting? Him coming to the U.S.? Or are you — We’ll have a meeting. I think we have the potential to have a very good relationship. I don’t know him like I know President Xi because I’ve spent a lot of time with President Xi, but I think we have the potential to have a very, very good relationship. I have it with Abe. I have it with Abe. Very good. Q Did you see Abe fall at the sand trap? I didn’t. I say this: If that was him, he is one of the greatest gymnasts because the way he — — it was like a perfect — I never saw anything like that. No, wasn’t it amazing? And he was standing up. I told him — I said, I’m not going to ask — because it was shot from a helicopter. I said, I will not ask if that’s you, but if it was, I’m very impressed because you’re better than any gymnast I’ve ever seen. Q What do you mean by “artificial Democratic barrier”? I mean, you and Putin can’t warm up because of this investigation? Or what — There’s an artificial barrier that puts in the way by the Democrats. It’s a fake barrier. There was no collusion. Everybody knows there was no collusion. I mean, you speak to these people — I saw Dianne Feinstein the other day and I respect her. She was on television the other day saying there’s no collusion. The Democrats — the Republicans come out screaming it, but the Democrats come out, and they say, “No, there’s no collusion.” There is no collusion. There’s nothing. And I think it’s a shame that something like that can destroy a very important potential relationship between two countries that are very important countries. Russia could really help us. And the Democrats wanted to have a good relationship with Russia, but they couldn’t do it because they didn’t have the talent to do it. They didn’t have the chemistry to do it. They didn’t have what it takes to do it. You know, there is a talent to that. But I think Putin and I — President Putin and I would have a great relationship, and that would be great for both countries. And it would take a lot of the danger out because we’re really — you know, this is a dangerous time. This isn’t small stuff. This is a very dangerous time. And having a great relationship, or even a good relationship, with the President of Russia — Hillary tried it, and she failed. Nobody mentions that. They act like, you know — it’s so terrible. She did that reset button; it was a joke. But she tried and she failed. Obama tried and he failed. Couldn’t have it, because he didn’t have chemistry. They didn’t have the right chemistry. And you know what? I understand that, because there are some people I don’t have chemistry with. Let’s see, some of you are right here. There are some people I don’t — you know, sometimes if you don’t have chemistry with somebody, you don’t. But Obama did not have the right chemistry with Putin. And Hillary was way over her head. You know, the intellectual property — you’re talking about $300 billion a year. It’s tremendous. We talked about it. But I said, we’re friends, but this is a different administration than you’ve had for the last 30 years. For the last 30 years, China — and, in all fairness, and other countries. Look, we have a $71 billion trade deficit with Mexico. We have a $70 billion trade deficit with Japan. We have a $30 billion trade deficit with South Korea. I could go through a whole list. There are few countries we have a surplus with, and those countries it’s like a two-dollar surplus. It’s disgraceful. And I don’t blame any of those countries. I blame the people that we had representing us who didn’t know what they were doing. Because they should have never let it happen. Q I’d like to ask a question on AT&T and CNN. Do you want AT&T to sell CNN for the — Well, I didn’t make the decision. That was made by a man who’s actually a very respected person — a very, very respected person. I did make a comment in the past as to what I think. I do feel that you should have as many news outlets as you can, especially since so many of them are fake. This way, at least you can get your word out. But I do believe you should have as many news outlets as you can. Now, with that being said, I didn’t make a statement on it, but I made that statement long before at the very early part. So we’ll see how that — it will probably end up being maybe litigation, maybe not. We’ll see how it all plays out. Q Did you talk to Xi about opening China to Twitter and other social media? About what? Q Opening China to Twitter. I mentioned it very briefly. Honestly, it wasn’t number one on my list. Number one on my list with him was North Korea and trade. Those are the two I really spoke. I mentioned it, you know, briefly, but we’ll talk. I’m going to have plenty of time to talk. He’ll come here next time. This all started in Florida, and it’s a great feeling to have that kind of a relationship where you can really help your country. Because we can really help our country, and he can really help his country. But we’re going to be very tough on trade. This is not going to be like it was in the past. I did tell him that. This is not going to be the old days. This is a whole different thing going on. And, you know, it’s not acceptable what’s been happening with trade, generally. China, yes — but generally. And I can think of almost no examples where it’s good. It’s all bad. We had the worst negotiators, whether it’s the Iran deal or any other thing. We had the worst — our trade deals are so bad. Last year, we lost $800 billion, right? Yeah. $800 , approximately. Check it. But approximately $800 billion on trade. Why? Q You put your own guys in there now. So what did you get from him? I have a great team. Bob Lighthizer. Bob Lighthizer is — he’s going to town. And he works with me. He works with me. But Bob is going to town. So I hope you’re all enjoying yourselves. Tonight we’re going to Hanoi. Q Any highlights from APEC? Do you have any asks for the other countries? I think the APEC was just — good, very collegial. Q Did anyone ask you for specific things? No, but I told them we’re going to have much tougher trade policies now, because, you know, they have barriers. We don’t. I’m not only talking about tariffs. They have non-tariff barriers, and we don’t. I said, you got to remove them. Good to be with you. Good to be with you. We’ll talk to you — Q Thank you for coming back. I’ll see you in Hanoi. Are you all going up? Q Yes, sir. Q We are. END 4:01 P.M. ICT
What an honor it is to be here in Vietnam — in the very heart of the Indo-Pacific — to address the people and business leaders of this region. This has already been a remarkable week for the United States in this wonderful part of the world. Starting from Hawaii, Melania and I traveled to Japan, South Korea, and China, and now to Vietnam, to be here with all of you today. Before we begin, I want to address all those affected by Typhoon Damrey. Americans are praying for you and for your recovery in the months ahead. Our hearts are united with the Vietnamese people suffering in the aftermath of this terrible storm. This trip comes at an exciting time for America. A new optimism has swept all across our country. Economic growth has reached 3.2 percent, and going higher. Unemployment is at its lowest level in 17 years. The stock market is at an all-time high. And the whole world is lifted by America’s renewal. Everywhere I’ve traveled on this journey, I’ve had the pleasure of sharing the good news from America. But even more, I’ve had the honor of sharing our vision for a free and open Indo-Pacific — a place where sovereign and independent nations, with diverse cultures and many different dreams, can all prosper side-by-side, and thrive in freedom and in peace. I am so thrilled to be here today at APEC, because this organization was founded to help achieve that very purpose. America stands as a proud member of the community of nations who make a home on the Pacific. We have been an active partner in this region since we first won independence ourselves. In 1784, the first American ship sailed to China from the newly independent United States. It went loaded with goods to sell in Asia, and it came back full of porcelain and tea. Our first president, George Washington himself, owned a set of tableware from that ship. In 1804, Thomas Jefferson sent the explorers, Lewis and Clark, on an expedition to our Pacific Coast. They were the first of the millions of Americans who ventured west to live out America’s manifest destiny across our vast continent. In 1817, our Congress approved the first full-time Pacific development of an American warship. That initial naval presence soon grew into a squadron, and then a fleet, to guarantee freedom of navigation for the growing number of ships, braving the high seas to reach markets in the Philippines, Singapore, and in India. In 1818, we began our relationship with the Kingdom of Thailand, and 15 years later our two countries signed a treaty of friendship and commerce — our first with an Asian nation. In the next century, when imperialist powers threatened this region, the United States pushed back at great cost to ourselves. We understood that security and prosperity depended on it. We have been friends, partners, and allies in the Indo-Pacific for a long, long time, and we will be friends, partners, and allies for a long time to come. As old friends in the region, no one has been more delighted than America to witness, to help, and to share in the extraordinary progress you have made over the last half-century. What the countries and economies represented here today have built in this part of the world is nothing short of miraculous. The story of this region in recent decades is the story of what is possible when people take ownership of their future. Few would have imagined just a generation ago that leaders of these nations would come together here in Da Nang to deepen our friendships, expand our partnerships, and celebrate the amazing achievements of our people. This city was once home to an American military base, in a country where many Americans and Vietnamese lost their lives in a very bloody war. Today, we are no longer enemies; we are friends. And this port city is bustling with ships from around the world. Engineering marvels, like the Dragon Bridge, welcome the millions who come to visit Da Nang’s stunning beaches, shining lights, and ancient charms. In the early 1990s, nearly half of Vietnam survived on just a few dollars a day, and one in four did not have any electricity. Today, an opening Vietnamese economy is one of the fastest-growing economies on Earth. It has already increased more than 30 times over, and the Vietnamese students rank among the best students in the world. And that is very impressive. This is the same story of incredible transformation that we have seen across the region. Indonesians for decades have been building domestic and democratic institutions to govern their vast chain of more than 13,000 islands. Since the 1990s, Indonesia’s people have lifted themselves from poverty to become one of the fastest-growing nations of the G20. Today, it is the third-largest democracy on Earth. The Philippines has emerged as a proud nation of strong and devout families. For 11 consecutive years, the World Economic Forum has ranked the Philippines first among Asian countries in closing the gender gap and embracing women leaders in business and in politics. Kingdom of Thailand has become an upper middle-income country in less than a generation. Its majestic capital of Bangkok is now the most visited city on Earth. And that is very impressive. Not too many people here are from Thailand. Malaysia has rapidly developed through recent decades, and it is now ranked as one of the best places in the world to do business. In Singapore, citizens born to parents who survived on $500 dollars a day are now among the highest earners in the world — a transformation made possible by the vision of Lee Kwan Yew’s vision of honest governance and the rule of law. And his great son is now doing an amazing job. As I recently observed in South Korea, the people of that Republic took a poor country ravaged by war, and in just a few decades turned it into one of the wealthiest democracies on Earth. Today, South Koreans enjoy higher incomes than the citizens of many European Union countries. It was great spending time with President Moon. Everyone knows of China’s impressive achievements over the past several decades. During this period — and it was a period of great market reforms — large parts of China experienced rapid economic growth, jobs boomed, and more than 800 million citizens rose out of poverty. I just left China this morning and had a really productive meeting and a wonderful time with our gracious host, President Xi. And, as I saw on my first stop of this trip, in Japan we see a dynamic democracy in a land of industrial, technological, and cultural wonders. In fewer than 60 years, that island nation has produced 24 Nobel Prize winners for achievements in physics, chemistry, medicine, literature, and the promotion of peace. President Abe and I agree on so much. In the broader region, countries outside of APEC are also making great strides in this new chapter for the Indo-Pacific. India is celebrating the 70th anniversary of its independence. It is a sovereign democracy, as well as — think of this — over 1 billion people. It’s the largest democracy in the world. Since India opened its economy, it has achieved astounding growth and a new world of opportunity for its expanding middle class. And Prime Minister Modi has been working to bring that vast country, and all of its people, together as one. And he is working at it very, very successfully, indeed. As we can see, in more and more places throughout this region, citizens of sovereign and independent nations have taken greater control of their destinies and unlocked the potential of their people. They’ve pursued visions of justice and accountability, promoted private property and the rule of law, and embraced systems that value hard work and individual enterprise. They built businesses, they built cities, they built entire countries from the ground up. Many of you in this room have taken part in these great, uplifting national projects of building. They have been your projects from inception to completion, from dreams to reality. With your help, this entire region has emerged — and it is still emerging — as a beautiful constellation of nations, each its own bright star, satellites to none — and each one, a people, a culture, a way of life, and a home. Those of you who have lived through these transformations understand better than anyone the value of what you have achieved. You also understand that your home is your legacy, and you must always protect it. In the process of your economic development, you’ve sought commerce and trade with other nations, and forged partnerships based on mutual respect and directed toward mutual gain. Today, I am here to offer a renewed partnership with America to work together to strengthen the bonds of friendship and commerce between all of the nations of the Indo-Pacific, and together, to promote our prosperity and security. At the core of this partnership, we seek robust trade relationships rooted in the principles of fairness and reciprocity. When the United States enters into a trading relationship with other countries or other peoples, we will, from now on, expect that our partners will faithfully follow the rules just like we do. We expect that markets will be open to an equal degree on both sides, and that private industry, not government planners, will direct investment. Unfortunately, for too long and in too many places, the opposite has happened. For many years, the United States systematically opened our economy with few conditions. We lowered or ended tariffs, reduced trade barriers, and allowed foreign goods to flow freely into our country. But while we lowered market barriers, other countries didn’t open their markets to us. Funny. They must have been one of the beneficiaries. What country do you come from, sir? Countries were embraced by the World Trade Organization, even if they did not abide by its stated principles. Simply put, we have not been treated fairly by the World Trade Organization. Organizations like the WTO can only function properly when all members follow the rules and respect the sovereign rights of every member. We cannot achieve open markets if we do not ensure fair market access. In the end, unfair trade undermines us all. The United States promoted private enterprise, innovation, and industry. Other countries used government-run industrial planning and state-owned enterprises. We adhered to WTO principles on protecting intellectual property and ensuring fair and equal market access. They engaged in product dumping, subsidized goods, currency manipulation, and predatory industrial policies. They ignored the rules to gain advantage over those who followed the rules, causing enormous distortions in commerce and threatening the foundations of international trade itself. Such practices, along with our collective failure to respond to them, hurt many people in our country and also in other countries. Jobs, factories, and industries were stripped out of the United States and out of many countries in addition. And many opportunities for mutually beneficial investments were lost because people could not trust the system. We can no longer tolerate these chronic trade abuses, and we will not tolerate them. Despite years of broken promises, we were told that someday soon everyone would behave fairly and responsibly. People in America and throughout the Indo-Pacific region have waited for that day to come. But it never has, and that is why I am here today — to speak frankly about our challenges and work toward a brighter future for all of us. I recently had an excellent trip to China, where I spoke openly and directly with President Xi about China’s unfair trade practices and the enormous trade deficits they have produced with the United States. I expressed our strong desire to work with China to achieve a trading relationship that is conducted on a truly fair and equal basis. The current trade imbalance is not acceptable. I do not blame China or any other country, of which there are many, for taking advantage of the United States on trade. If their representatives are able to get away with it, they are just doing their jobs. I wish previous administrations in my country saw what was happening and did something about it. They did not, but I will. From this day forward, we will compete on a fair and equal basis. We are not going to let the United States be taken advantage of anymore. I am always going to put America first the same way that I expect all of you in this room to put your countries first. The United States is prepared to work with each of the leaders in this room today to achieve mutually beneficial commerce that is in the interest of both your countries and mine. That is the message I am here to deliver. I will make bilateral trade agreements with any Indo-Pacific nation that wants to be our partner and that will abide by the principles of fair and reciprocal trade. What we will no longer do is enter into large agreements that tie our hands, surrender our sovereignty, and make meaningful enforcement practically impossible. Instead, we will deal on a basis of mutual respect and mutual benefit. We will respect your independence and your sovereignty. We want you to be strong, prosperous, and self-reliant, rooted in your history, and branching out toward the future. That is how we will thrive and grow together, in partnerships of real and lasting value. But for this — and I call it the Indo-Pacific dream — if it’s going to be realized, we must ensure that all play by the rules, which they do not right now. Those who do will be our closest economic partners. Those who do not can be certain that the United States will no longer turn a blind eye to violations, cheating, or economic aggression. Those days are over. We will no longer tolerate the audacious theft of intellectual property. We will confront the destructive practices of forcing businesses to surrender their technology to the state, and forcing them into joint ventures in exchange for market access. We will address the massive subsidizing of industries through colossal state-owned enterprises that put private competitors out of business — happening all the time. We will not remain silent as American companies are targeted by state-affiliated actors for economic gain, whether through cyberattacks, corporate espionage, or other anti-competitive practices. We will encourage all nations to speak out loudly when the principles of fairness and reciprocity are violated. We know it is in America’s interests to have partners throughout this region that are thriving, prosperous, and dependent on no one. We will not make decisions for the purpose of power or patronage. We will never ask our partners to surrender their sovereignty, privacy, and intellectual property, or to limit contracts to state-owned suppliers. We will find opportunities for our private sector to work with yours and to create jobs and wealth for us all. We seek strong partners, not weak partners. We seek strong neighbors, not weak neighbors. Above all, we seek friendship, and we don’t dream of domination. For this reason, we are also refocusing our existing development efforts. We are calling on the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank to direct their efforts toward high-quality infrastructure investment that promotes economic growth. The United States will also do its part. We are also committed to reforming our development finance institutions so that they better incentivize private sector investment in your economies, and provide strong alternatives to state-directed initiatives that come with many strings attached. The United States has been reminded time and time again in recent years that economic security is not merely related to national security. Economic security is national security. It is vital — — to our national strength. We also know that we will not have lasting prosperity if we do not confront grave threats to security, sovereignty, and stability facing our world today. Earlier this week, I addressed the National Assembly in Seoul, South Korea and urged every responsible nation to stand united in declaring that every single step the North Korean regime takes toward more weapons is a step it takes into greater and greater danger. The future of this region and its beautiful people must not be held hostage to a dictator’s twisted fantasies of violent conquest and nuclear blackmail. In addition, we must uphold principles that have benefitted all of us, like respect for the rule of law — — individual rights, and freedom of navigation and overflight, including open shipping lanes. Three principles and these principles — — create stability and build trust, security, and prosperity among like-minded nations. We must also deal decisively with other threats to our security and the future of our children, such as criminal cartels, human smuggling, drugs, corruption, cybercrime, and territorial expansion. As I have said many times before: All civilized people must come together to drive out terrorists and extremists from our societies, stripping them of funding, territory, and ideological support. We must stop radical Islamic terrorism. So let us work together for a peaceful, prosperous, and free Indo-Pacific. I am confident that, together, every problem we have spoken about today can be solved and every challenge we face can be overcome. If we succeed in this effort, if we seize the opportunities before us and ground our partnerships firmly in the interests of our own people, then together we will achieve everything we dream for our nations and for our children. We will be blessed with a world of strong, sovereign, and independent nations, thriving in peace and commerce with others. They will be places where we can build our homes and where families, businesses, and people can flourish and grow. If we do this, will we look at the globe half a century from now, and we will marvel at the beautiful constellation of nations — each different, each unique, and each shining brightly and proudly throughout this region of the world. And just as when we look at the stars in the night sky, the distance of time will make most of the challenges we have and that we spoke of today seem very, very small. What will not seem small — what is not small — will be the big choices that all of our nations will have to make to keep their stars glowing very, very brightly. In America, like every nation that has won and defended its sovereignty, we understand that we have nothing so precious as our birthright, our treasured independence, and our freedom. That knowledge has guided us throughout American history. It has inspired us to sacrifice and innovate. And it is why today, hundreds of years after our victory in the American Revolution, we still remember the words of an American founder and our second President of the United States, John Adams. As an old man, just before his death, this great patriot was asked to offer his thoughts on the 50th anniversary of glorious American freedom. He replied with the words: independence forever. It’s a sentiment that burns in the heart of every patriot and every nation. Our hosts here in Vietnam have known this sentiment not just for 200 years, but for nearly 2,000 years. It was around 40 AD when two Vietnamese sisters, the Trung Sisters, first awakened the spirit of the people of this land. It was then that, for the first time, the people of Vietnam stood for your independence and your pride. Today, the patriots and heroes — — of our histories hold the answers to the great questions of our future and our time. They remind us of who we are and what we are called to do. Together, we have it in our power to lift our people and our world to new heights — heights that have never been attained, So let us choose a future of patriotism, prosperity, and pride. Let us choose wealth and freedom over poverty and servitude. Let us choose a free and open Indo-Pacific. Finally, let us never forget the world has many places — — many dreams, and many roads. But in all of the world, there is no place like home. so, for family, for country, for freedom, for history, and for the glory of God, protect your home, defend your home, and love your home today and for all time. Thank you. God Bless You. God Bless the Pacific region. And God Bless the United States of America. Thank you very much. Thank you. END 1:51 P.M. ICT
Thank you very much. Thank you. And thank you, Minister Zhong Shan, for that introduction. And especially thank you to President Xi and Madam Peng for serving as such warm and gracious hosts to Melania and me during our time here in your very, very beautiful country. To both the American delegation and to the Chinese business representatives here, your discussions greatly strengthen our partnership and provides a critical bridge between our business community and yours. And thank you for that. During my time in Beijing, President Xi and I have had several conversations about our common goals and interests. Beyond that, we talk often. There’s a very good chemistry between the two of, believe me. My administration is committed to improving our trade and business relationships with China. And this relationship is something which we are working very hard to make a fair and reciprocal one. Trade between China and the United States has not been, over the last many, many years, a very fair one for us. As we all know, America has a huge annual trade deficit with China — a number beyond anything what anybody would understand. This number is, shockingly, hundreds of billions of dollars each year. Estimates are as high as $500 billion a year. We must immediately address the unfair trade practices that drive this deficit, along with barriers to market success. We really have to look at access, forced technology transfer, and the theft of intellectual property, which just, by and of itself, is costing the United States and its companies at least $300 billion a year. Both the United States and China will have a more prosperous future if we can achieve a level economic playing field. Right now, unfortunately, it is a very one-sided and unfair one. But — but I don’t blame China. After all, who can blame a country for being able to take advantage of another country for the benefit of its citizens? I give China great credit. But, in actuality, I do blame past administrations for allowing this out-of-control trade deficit to take place and to grow. We have to fix this because it just doesn’t work for our great American companies, and it doesn’t work for our great American workers. It is just not sustainable. I look forward to working toward that goal and to pursuing fair and lasting engagement. At home, my administration is supporting American workers and American businesses by eliminating burdensome regulations and lifting restrictions on American energy and all other businesses. Restrictions are being seriously lifted. Our work is already taking hold. The stock market in the United States is at an all-time high, adding already $5.5 trillion in new wealth since the very, very well-known and now very important November 8th election. Unemployment is at a 17-year low, and so many other great things are happening to the United States, economically and otherwise. Frankly, too many to mention. Abroad, we’re committed to a free and open Indo-Pacific based respect for the rule of law, private enterprise, and trade reciprocity. In order to achieve prosperity, we must also have security. Security cooperation is critical to addressing a range of emerging threats throughout the Indo-Pacific region and around the world, and I have been very encouraged by my conversations, both over the last number of weeks and, in particular, last night and this morning with President Xi. We’re very, very much on the same plane when it comes to security. We both want it for our countries, and we both want it for the world. Chief among these threats is the North Korean nuclear menace. As I stated in my address to the National Assembly in Seoul yesterday, the United States is committed to the complete and permanent denuclearization of North Korea. So important. China can fix this problem easily and quickly, and I am calling on China and your great President to hopefully work on it very hard. I know one thing about your President: If he works on it hard, it will happen. There’s no doubt about it. We call on all nations to implement U.N. Security Council sanctions and resolutions and to cease doing business with the North Korean regime. All nations must come together to ensure that this rogue regime cannot threaten the world with its nuclear weapons. I thank President Xi for his recent efforts to restrict trade with North Korea and to cut off all banking ties. Mr. President, thank you, and thank you to all of the Chinese business leaders here today for standing with the United States and our coalition of responsible nations. But time is quickly running out. We must act fast, and hopefully China will act faster and more effectively on this problem than anyone. I’m also calling on Russia to help rein in this potentially very tragic situation. The contributions of the business community represented here today are vital to our efforts to ensure peace and prosperity for our two nations. Together, we can unlock a future of opportunity, wealth, and dignity far beyond anybody’s wildest dreams. In your discussions today, I hope you will learn from each other and identify new ways to advance our economic cooperation. I am depending on all of you to work together to find opportunities of mutual agreement and shared prosperity. The hardworking people of America and the hardworking people of China deserve the very best solutions to achieve prosperity, happiness, and peace. Thank you very much. Thank you. END 12:28 P.M. CST
Assembly Speaker Chung, distinguished members of this Assembly, ladies and gentlemen: Thank you for the extraordinary privilege to speak in this great chamber and to address your people on behalf of the people of the United States of America. In our short time in your country, Melania and I have been awed by its ancient and modern wonders, and we are deeply moved by the warmth of your welcome. Last night, President and Mrs. Moon showed us incredible hospitality in a beautiful reception at the Blue House. We had productive discussions on increasing military cooperation and improving the trade relationship between our nations on the principle of fairness and reciprocity. Through this entire visit, it has been both our pleasure and our honor to create and celebrate a long friendship between the United States and the Republic of Korea. This alliance between our nations was forged in the crucible of war, and strengthened by the trials of history. From the Inchon landings to Pork Chop Hill, American and South Korean soldiers have fought together, sacrificed together, and triumphed together. Almost 67 years ago, in the spring of 1951, they recaptured what remained of this city where we are gathered so proudly today. It was the second time in a year that our combined forces took on steep casualties to retake this capital from the communists. Over the next weeks and months, the men soldiered through steep mountains and bloody, bloody battles. Driven back at times, they willed their way north to form the line that today divides the oppressed and the free. And there, American and South Korean troops have remained together holding that line for nearly seven decades. By the time the armistice was signed in 1953, more than 36,000 Americans had died in the Korean War, with more than 100,000 others very badly wounded. They are heroes, and we honor them. We also honor and remember the terrible price the people of your country paid for their freedom. You lost hundreds of thousands of brave soldiers and countless innocent civilians in that gruesome war. Much of this great city of Seoul was reduced to rubble. Large portions of the country were scarred — severely, severely hurt — by this horrible war. The economy of this nation was demolished. But as the entire world knows, over the next two generations something miraculous happened on the southern half of this peninsula. Family by family, city by city, the people of South Korea built this country into what is today one of the great nations of the world. And I congratulate you. In less than one lifetime, South Korea climbed from total devastation to among the wealthiest nations on Earth. Today, your economy is more than 350 times larger than what it was in 1960. Trade has increased 1,900 times. Life expectancy has risen from just 53 years to more than 82 years today. Like Korea, and since my election exactly one year ago today, I celebrate with you. The United States is going through something of a miracle itself. Our stock market is at an all-time high. Unemployment is at a 17-year low. We are defeating ISIS. We are strengthening our judiciary, including a brilliant Supreme Court justice, and on, and on, and on. Currently stationed in the vicinity of this peninsula are the three largest aircraft carriers in the world loaded to the maximum with magnificent F-35 and F-18 fighter jets. In addition, we have nuclear submarines appropriately positioned. The United States, under my administration, is completely rebuilding its military and is spending hundreds of billions of dollars to the newest and finest military equipment anywhere in the world being built, right now. I want peace through strength. We are helping the Republic of Korea far beyond what any other country has ever done. And, in the end, we will work things out far better than anybody understands or can even appreciate. I know that the Republic of Korea, which has become a tremendously successful nation, will be a faithful ally of the United States very long into the future. What you have built is truly an inspiration. Your economic transformation was linked to a political one. The proud, sovereign, and independent people of your nation demanded the right to govern themselves. You secured free parliamentary elections in 1988, the same year you hosted your first Olympics. after, you elected your first civilian president in more than three decades. And when the Republic you won faced financial crisis, you lined up by the millions to give your most prized possessions — your wedding rings, heirlooms, and gold “luck keys” — to restore the promise of a better future for your children. Your wealth is measured in more than money — it is measured in achievements of the mind and achievements of spirit. Over the last several decades, your scientists of engineers — have engineered so many magnificent things. You’ve pushed the boundaries of technology, pioneered miraculous medical treatments, and emerged as leaders in unlocking the mysteries of our universe. Korean authors penned roughly 40,000 books this year. Korean musicians fill concert halls all around the world. Young Korean students graduate from college at the highest rates of any country. And Korean golfers are some of the best on Earth. Fact — and you know what I’m going to say — the Women’s U.S. Open was held this year at Trump National Golf Club in Bedminster, New Jersey, and it just happened to be won by a great Korean golfer, Sung-hyun Park. An eighth of the top 10 players were from Korea. And the top four golfers — one, two, three, four — the top four were from Korea. Congratulations. Congratulations. And that’s something. That is really something. Here in Seoul, architectural wonders like the Sixty-Three Building and the Lotte World Tower — very beautiful — grace the sky and house the workers of many growing industries. Citizens now help to feed the hungry, fight terrorism, and solve problems all over the world. And in a few months, you will host the world and you will do a magnificent job at the 23rd Olympic Winter Games. Good luck. The Korean miracle extends exactly as far as the armies of free nations advanced in 1953 — 24 miles to the north. There, it stops; it all comes to an end. Dead stop. The flourishing ends, and the prison state of North Korea sadly begins. Workers in North Korea labor grueling hours in unbearable conditions for almost no pay. Recently, the entire working population was ordered to work for 70 days straight, or else pay for a day of rest. Families live in homes without plumbing, and fewer than half have electricity. Parents bribe teachers in hopes of saving their sons and daughters from forced labor. More than a million North Koreans died of famine in the 1990s, and more continue to die of hunger today. Among children under the age of five, nearly 30 percent of afflicted — and are afflicted by stunted growth due to malnutrition. And yet, in 2012 and 2013, the regime spent an estimated $200 million — or almost half the money that it allocated to improve living standards for its people — to instead build even more monuments, towers, and statues to glorify its dictators. What remains of the meager harvest of the North Korean economy is distributed according to perceived loyalty to a twisted regime. Far from valuing its people as equal citizens, this cruel dictatorship measures them, scores them, and ranks them based on the most arbitrary indications of their allegiance to the state. Those who score the highest in loyalty may live in the capital city. Those who score the lowest starve. A small infraction by one citizen, such as accidently staining a picture of the tyrant printed in a discarded newspaper, can wreck the social credit rank of his entire family for many decades. An estimated 100,000 North Koreans suffer in gulags, toiling in forced labor, and enduring torture, starvation, rape, and murder on a constant basis. In one known instance, a 9-year-old boy was imprisoned for 10 years because his grandfather was accused of treason. In another, a student was beaten in school for forgetting a single detail about the life of Kim Jong-un. Soldiers have kidnapped foreigners and forced them to work as language tutors for North Korean spies. In the part of Korea that was a stronghold for Christianity before the war, Christians and other people of faith who are found praying or holding a religious book of any kind are now detained, tortured, and in many cases, even executed. North Korean women are forced to abort babies that are considered ethnically inferior. And if these babies are born, the newborns are murdered. One woman’s baby born to a Chinese father was taken away in a bucket. The guards said it did not “deserve to live because it was impure.” So why would China feel an obligation to help North Korea? The horror of life in North Korea is so complete that citizens pay bribes to government officials to have themselves exported aboard as slaves. They would rather be slaves than live in North Korea. To attempt to flee is a crime punishable by death. One person who escaped remarked, “When I think about it now, I was not a human being. I was more like an animal. Only after leaving North Korea did I realize what life was supposed to be.” And so, on this peninsula, we have watched the results of a tragic experiment in a laboratory of history. It is a tale of one people, but two Koreas. One Korea in which the people took control of their lives and their country, and chose a future of freedom and justice, of civilization, and incredible achievement. And another Korea in which leaders imprison their people under the banner of tyranny, fascism, and oppression. The result of this experiment are in, and they are totally conclusive. When the Korean War began in 1950, the two Koreas were approximately equal in GDP per capita. But by the 1990s, South Korea’s wealth had surpassed North Korea’s by more than 10 times. And today, the South’s economy is over 40 times larger. You started the same a short while ago, and now you’re 40 times larger. You’re doing something right. Considering the misery wrought by the North Korean dictatorship, it is no surprise that it has been forced to take increasingly desperate measures to prevent its people from understanding this brutal contrast. Because the regime fears the truth above all else, it forbids virtually all contact with the outside world. Not just my speech today, but even the most commonplace facts of South Korean life are forbidden knowledge to the North Korean people. Western and South Korean music is banned. Possession of foreign media is a crime punishable by death. Citizens spy on fellow citizens, their homes are subject to search at any time, and their every action is subject to surveillance. In place of a vibrant society, the people of North Korea are bombarded by state propaganda practically every waking hour of the day. North Korea is a country ruled as a cult. At the center of this military cult is a deranged belief in the leader’s destiny to rule as parent protector over a conquered Korean Peninsula and an enslaved Korean people. The more successful South Korea becomes, the more decisively you discredit the dark fantasy at the heart of the Kim regime. In this way, the very existence of a thriving South Korean republic threatens the very survival of the North Korean dictatorship. This city and this assembly are living proof that a free and independent Korea not only can, but does stand strong, sovereign, and proud among the nations of the world. Here, the strength of the nation does not come from the false glory of a tyrant. It comes from the true and powerful glory of a strong and great people — the people of the Republic of Korea — a Korean people who are free to live, to flourish, to worship, to love, to build, and to grow their own destiny. In this Republic, the people have done what no dictator ever could — you took, with the help of the United States, responsibility for yourselves and ownership of your future. You had a dream — a Korean dream — and you built that dream into a great reality. In so doing, you performed the miracle on the Hahn that we see all around us, from the stunning skyline of Seoul to the plains and peaks of this beautiful landscape. You have done it freely, you have done it happily, and you have done it in your own very beautiful way. This reality — this wonderful place — your success is the greatest cause of anxiety, alarm, and even panic to the North Korean regime. That is why the Kim regime seeks conflict abroad — to distract from total failure that they suffer at home. Since the so-called armistice, there have been hundreds of North Korean attacks on Americans and South Koreans. These attacks have included the capture and torture of the brave American soldiers of the USS Pueblo, repeated assaults on American helicopters, and the 1969 drowning of a U.S. surveillance plane that killed 31 American servicemen. The regime has made numerous lethal incursions in South Korea, attempted to assassinate senior leaders, attacked South Korean ships, and tortured Otto Warmbier, ultimately leading to that fine young man’s death. All the while, the regime has pursued nuclear weapons with the deluded hope that it could blackmail its way to the ultimate objective. And that objective we are not going to let it have. We are not going to let it have. All of Korea is under that spell, divided in half. South Korea will never allow what’s going on in North Korea to continue to happen. The North Korean regime has pursued its nuclear and ballistic missile programs in defiance of every assurance, agreement, and commitment it has made to the United States and its allies. It’s broken all of those commitments. After promising to freeze its plutonium program in 1994, it repeated the benefits of the deal and then — and then immediately continued its illicit nuclear activities. In 2005, after years of diplomacy, the dictatorship agreed to ultimately abandon its nuclear programs and return to the Treaty on Non-Proliferation. But it never did. And worse, it tested the very weapons it said it was going to give up. In 2009, the United States gave negotiations yet another chance, and offered North Korea the open hand of engagement. The regime responded by sinking a South Korean Navy ship, killing 46 Korean sailors. To this day, it continues to launch missiles over the sovereign territory of Japan and all other neighbors, test nuclear devices, and develop ICBMs to threaten the United States itself. The regime has interpreted America’s past restraint as weakness. This would be a fatal miscalculation. This is a very different administration than the United States has had in the past. Today, I hope I speak not only for our countries, but for all civilized nations, when I say to the North: Do not underestimate us, and do not try us. We will defend our common security, our shared prosperity, and our sacred liberty. We did not choose to draw here, on this peninsula — — this magnificent peninsula — the thin line of civilization that runs around the world and down through time. But here it was drawn, and here it remains to this day. It is the line between peace and war, between decency and depravity, between law and tyranny, between hope and total despair. It is a line that has been drawn many times, in many places, throughout history. To hold that line is a choice free nations have always had to make. We have learned together the high cost of weakness and the high stakes of its defense. America’s men and women in uniform have given their lives in the fight against Nazism, imperialism, Communism and terrorism. America does not seek conflict or confrontation, but we will never run from it. History is filled with discarded regimes that have foolishly tested America’s resolve. Anyone who doubts the strength or determination of the United States should look to our past, and you will doubt it no longer. We will not permit America or our allies to be blackmailed or attacked. We will not allow American cities to be threatened with destruction. We will not be intimidated. And we will not let the worst atrocities in history be repeated here, on this ground, we fought and died so hard to secure. That is why I have come here, to the heart of a free and flourishing Korea, with a message for the peace-loving nations of the world: The time for excuses is over. Now is the time for strength. If you want peace, you must stand strong at all times. The world cannot tolerate the menace of a rogue regime that threatens with nuclear devastation. All responsible nations must join forces to isolate the brutal regime of North Korea — to deny it and any form — any form of it. You cannot support, you cannot supply, you cannot accept. We call on every nation, including China and Russia, to fully implement U.N. Security Council resolutions, downgrade diplomatic relations with the regime, and sever all ties of trade and technology. It is our responsibility and our duty to confront this danger together — because the longer we wait, the greater the danger grows, and the fewer the options become. And to those nations that choose to ignore this threat, or, worse still, to enable it, the weight of this crisis is on your conscience. I also have come here to this peninsula to deliver a message directly to the leader of the North Korean dictatorship: The weapons you are acquiring are not making you safer. They are putting your regime in grave danger. Every step you take down this dark path increases the peril you face. North Korea is not the paradise your grandfather envisioned. It is a hell that no person deserves. Yet, despite every crime you have committed against God and man, you are ready to offer, and we will do that — we will offer a path to a much better future. It begins with an end to the aggression of your regime, a stop to your development of ballistic missiles, and complete, verifiable, and total denuclearization. A sky-top view of this peninsula shows a nation of dazzling light in the South and a mass of impenetrable darkness in the North. We seek a future of light, prosperity, and peace. But we are only prepared to discuss this brighter path for North Korea if its leaders cease their threats and dismantle their nuclear program. The sinister regime of North Korea is right about only one thing: The Korean people do have a glorious destiny, but they could not be more wrong about what that destiny looks like. The destiny of the Korean people is not to suffer in the bondage of oppression, but to thrive in the glory of freedom. What South Koreans have achieved on this peninsula is more than a victory for your nation. It is a victory for every nation that believes in the human spirit. And it is our hope that, someday soon, all of your brothers and sisters of the North will be able to enjoy the fullest of life intended by God. Your republic shows us all of what is possible. In just a few decades, with only the hard work, courage, and talents of your people, you turned this war-torn land into a nation blessed with wealth, rich in culture, and deep in spirit. You built a home where all families can flourish and where all children can shine and be happy. This Korea stands strong and tall among the great community of independent, confident, and peace-loving nations. We are nations that respect our citizens, cherish our liberty, treasure our sovereignty, and control our own destiny. We affirm the dignity of every person and embrace the full potential of every soul. And we are always prepared to defend the vital interests of our people against the cruel ambition of tyrants. Together, we dream of a Korea that is free, a peninsula that is safe, and families that are reunited once again. We dream of highways connecting North and South, of cousins embracing cousins, and this nuclear nightmare replaced with the beautiful promise of peace. Until that day comes, we stand strong and alert. Our eyes are fixed to the North, and our hearts praying for the day when all Koreans can live in freedom. Thank you. God Bless You. God Bless the Korean people. Thank you very much. Thank you. END 11:59 A.M. KST
Thank you very much. I just want to thank General Brooks and everybody that is working with us so hard on the situation in South Korea. Terrific people. I had a choice of having a beautiful, very fancy lunch, and I said, no, I want to eat with the troops. And we ate with the troops. And it was good eating. It was good eating. And I tell you, they’ve done a terrific job. Very impressive. And we have a very strong schedule today and, actually, for the next nine days. As you know, we just got back from Japan where we had a very successful two days. Today will be pretty busy and tomorrow also. And then we head to China. And I look forward to that. There’s great cooperation. We have a terrific meeting scheduled on trade in a little while with President Moon and his representatives. And we will — hopefully, that will start working out, and working out so that we create lots of jobs in the United States, which is one the reasons — one of the very important reasons I’m here. In addition to that, we’ll be meeting with the various generals — General Brooks and the various generals — about the situation in North Korea. And I think we’re going to have lots of good answers for you over a period of time, and ultimately it will all work out. Because it always works out — has to work out. So I want to thank you all for being here. We appreciate it. Thank you very much. We’re going to see you in a little while. And I think about 4:30, we’re going to be separately meeting with you. But we appreciate it. I hope you had a good flight here. Many of you were on the flight with me, so I know it was pretty good. And I think you’re probably just as impressed as I am. This is a very impressive group of people, beyond facilities — people. These are very impressive people. So, General, thank you very much. Appreciate it. Thank you. END 1:55 P.M. KST
Thank you very much, Bill. Please, sit down. Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador, for that wonderful introduction, I guess. Right? That was good with me. And thank you for representing, Bill, so well the interests of the American people in Japan and the incredible relationship that you have with Japan. We really appreciate it. You’re doing a fantastic job. We very much appreciate it. Thank you. Let me begin today by addressing the horrific shooting in Sutherland Springs, Texas. Our thoughts and prayers are with the victims and families of today’s horrible and murderous attack. This act of evil occurred as the victims and their families were in their place of sacred worship. We cannot put into words the pain and grief we all feel, and we cannot begin to imagine the suffering of those who lost the ones they so dearly loved. Our hearts are broken, but in dark times — and these are dark times — such as these, Americans do what they do best: We pull together. We join hands, we lock arms, and through the tears and through the sadness, we stand strong — oh, so strong. My administration will provide its full support to the great state of Texas and all local authorities investigating this horrible crime. I’ve spoken just a few minutes ago with Governor Abbott, and we offer our thanks to the first responders, the FBI, all of the many people involved, both federal and otherwise. Ultimately, they stopped the suspect and rendered immediate lifesaving aid to certain victims of the shooting. I will continue to follow the developments closely. All of America is praying to God to help the wounded and the families of the victims. We will never, ever leave their side — ever. With that being said, we are here today in Japan with one of our closest and most cherished allies, through bad times and good times, through rain and through shine. I want to thank Secretary Tillerson — Rex — who has done a tremendous job of leading the dedicated men and women of the Department of State here in Japan and around the world. The splendor and beauty of Japan has left a lasting impression on me and my family. And I want to thank the First Lady for being with us, Melania. Please stand. She’s become a very, very popular First Lady, I can tell you that. Whenever I speak, they have hundreds of signs out in the audience. We love our First Lady, which is so true. Thank you. And our warmest admiration for this ancient culture. It’s an ancient culture and its customs are ancient, and it’s terrific. Over the weekend, Ivanka attended the World Assembly for Women with Prime Minister Abe, who I was with all day yesterday. I applaud the Prime Minister — and he’s a terrific person, by the way — for his dedication to advancing women in the workforce. And I share his commitment to empowering women in business and in all professions. This morning, I am pleased to have an opportunity to discuss how we can strengthen and improve the economic ties between the United States and Japan. And I have to say, for the last many decades, Japan has been winning. You do know that. For the, actually, last 70 years, cooperation between our two countries has helped us to pioneer incredible advances in commerce, in science, medicine, and technology. Our students study together, our scholars exchange ideas, and business leaders like you work together to invest in a better, more prosperous future for both of our nations. I know many of the leaders in this room have helped build Japan into the center for commerce and innovation that it is today. And I want to commend you for your incredible achievements in so many areas. And I looked at a list of the people in the room — they are truly the leaders of industry. I congratulate you all. Names that, in many cases, I haven’t met, but I know you well, from reading about you on the covers of every business magazine and sometimes well beyond the business magazines. So, congratulations. Fantastic job you’ve done in building some of the greatest companies in the world. And it’s an honor to be working with you. We want to thank and make the United States for the people in this room, and well beyond this room, the most attractive place for you to hire, invest, and to grow. That’s why we are very, very substantially lowering our taxes. The United States is one of the highest-taxed nations in the world. But it’s also a market like no other; by far, the biggest market in the world. Its numbers are phenomenal over the last — since November 8th, Election Day. Our unemployment is at a 17-year low. We’ve gotten almost 2 million more people in the workforce in just that short period of time. I’ve reduced regulations terrifically, frankly, if I do say so myself — but at a level that nobody else has ever done. I’ve done more in nine months in terms of the reduction of regulations than any President has done in a full term, and it’s not even close. And if it were close, they will let you know about it tomorrow morning, believe me. They will tell you about it, but it’s not even close. The stock market reached an all-time high on Friday, and that’s the 61st, I believe — something around that number — 61st time that’s happened. So we have a lot of happy people in this room because your stocks are right in there. And look at you, you’re smiling. Very happy. What company? What company? Oh, that’s another big one. That’s a great company. Are you happy? You happy with the job? Good. Come around, give me your hand. That is some company, too. Congratulations, you’ve done a great job. But it’s reached an all-time high. I believe it’s maybe in the neighborhood of 61 times during the course of — from November 8. And so we’re honored by that. GDP growth, very importantly, we hit 3.2 last quarter — 3.2 And this time we hit 3, and we figure a good point — I would say a good solid point for hurricanes. We had four horrific hurricanes, as everybody knows, and did tremendous damage to Texas and Florida and Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands and Louisiana, and even Alabama was affected, and other places — Georgia. And we figured at least a point. So I was going to close my eyes a little bit when the numbers came out. And the number came out at 3. That would mean that it would have been 4. And GDP at 4 was unthinkable, actually unthinkable, when I was running. And I said we could do it. They were saying maybe you could hit 2, 2.5. My first quarter was 1. We were in the ones. And so we’re at 3, and now 3.2. And again, without the hurricanes, I think we would have been 4 or very close to 4. So that’s GDP of 4. That was not something that people thought of in the first three or four years, and we’ve already hit it. And we will continue to. On regulations, while I’ve reduced regulations terrifically. It would take, as an example, to build a highway — it would take 17 to 20 years to get approvals. And at the end of 20th year, in many cases, they voted it down. Do you approve? No. So they wasted tens of millions of dollars. There’s a highway in Maryland where it took exactly 17 years. And the original numbers were very little, and it ended up costing hundreds of millions of dollars for a very small, short highway. And we can’t have that. So we’re trying to bring that number down from — anywhere from 13 to 20 years. We’re trying to bring it down to one year. You want to build a road? You want to build a highway? You want to build a school? You want to build a factory — most importantly, to the folks in this room — or a plant? You’re going to have your approvals very, very quickly. Now, you may be rejected quickly, too. But that’s okay. If you’re rejected quickly — you don’t want to be rejected at the end of the 17th year. I approved a power plant, which has been under consideration for 11 years, and they gave up, and I approved it. And it’s a $7 billion plant. And the state wanted it and the local community wanted it, but they had environmental restrictions. And now it’s being built. The Dakota Access Pipeline and, as you know, the Keystone Pipeline, that was rejected by the previous administration. The Keystone Pipeline was dead. And the Dakota Access Pipeline was in even in worse shape because they built it but they weren’t allowed to hook it up. So I consider not starting even better than that. And in my first week, I approved both. It’s 42,000 jobs. The Dakota is already open and Keystone is starting; it’s actually already started. And that was done in the first week — got it approved. And we have many other things like that. I could stand here all day and tell you additional events that we’ve done that create jobs and are good for our country, not bad for our country. When you want to build your auto plants, you will have your approvals almost immediately. When you want to expand your plants, you will have your approvals almost immediately. And in the room, we have a couple of the great folks from two of the biggest auto companies in the world that are building new plants and doing expansions of other plants. And you know who you are, and I want to just thank you very much. I want to thank you. I also want to recognize the business leaders in the room whose confidence in the United States — they’ve been creating jobs — you have such confidence in the United States, and you’ve been creating jobs for our country for a long, long time. Several Japanese automobile industry firms have been really doing a job. And we love it when you build cars — if you’re a Japanese firm, we love it — try building your cars in the United States instead of shipping them over. Is that possible to ask? That’s not rude. Is that rude? I don’t think so. If you could build them. But I must say, Toyota and Mazda — where are you? Are you here, anybody? Toyota? Mazda? I thought so. Oh, I thought that was you. That’s big stuff. Congratulations. Come on, let me shake your hand. They’re going to invest $1.6 billion in building a new manufacturing plant, which will create as many as 4,000 new jobs in the United States. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. And we’re very pleased that just last month, Denso announced that it will invest $1 billion to expand its activities in Tennessee, a great state — great state — I know, I’m going to introduce him now. And create over 1,000 new jobs. And I do believe that’s you — another famous man. Come here. Great state. You’re going to love being there. And again, it’s really terrific. You watch, it’s going to be — it’s going to go so smoothly. And the process is a much easier process now. So, thank you. Thank you both very much. I want to thank these companies, but I want to thank all of the companies that are coming in. Many companies have announced now that they’re coming into the United States to do plants, to do factories, to move. You saw Broadcom is coming in — top 100 company — they announced on Thursday from the Oval Office. Anytime you’d like to expand a second — see, I don’t have to do that now because you’ve already announced, so I don’t have to bother. But if you do a little more expansion, we’ll do it from the Oval Office, you two, all right? But we just did that announcement from the Oval Office. And Foxconn is coming in with a massive plant that is going to be in Wisconsin. And that was very exciting. They do the Apple iPhones, and it’s going to be a tremendous success. But we have to do more. The United States has suffered massive trade deficits with Japan for many, many years. Almost $70 billion annually. Seventy billion. Many millions of cars are sold by Japan into the United States, whereas virtually no cars go from the United States into Japan, and our car industry is doing very well and our product is fantastic. So we’ll have to negotiate that out, and we’ll do it in a very friendly way, and I know it’s going to be a successful negotiation. And one thing I can say — that we make the greatest military equipment in the world. There’s nothing close. And the Prime Minister is ordering a lot of military equipment, as he should be — as he should be with what’s happening with one of your neighbors. So that is happening. We had a case yesterday, as you know, where a missile was shot into Saudi Arabia, and their missile system defense — took the missile right out of the air, blew it up. Incredible talent, incredible technology that we have. Incredible. The accuracy that you can stop something like that, it’s like a needle in the air going very, very fast. And, just, we make incredible equipment, whether it’s the planes, the missiles — anything you can think about. There’s nobody even close. So we’re going to be doing a lot of business with many countries on defense. We want fair and open trade. But right now, our trade with Japan is not fair and it’s not open, but I know it will be, soon. We want free and reciprocal trade, but right now our trade with Japan is not free and it’s not reciprocal. And I know it will be. And we’ve started the process, and it’s gone on for a long time, but I know that we will be able to come up with trade deals and trade concepts that are going to be fair to both countries, and, actually, I think will actually be better for both countries. And I have no doubt that it will be done in a quick and very friendly manner. I’m very optimistic about the future of our economic partnership. We are proud, for instance, that, after the United States, Japan is the largest owner of Boeing aircraft. Greatest commercial aircraft in the world. Is Boeing here? Boeing? Oh, look at my guy. Stand up. Boy, have I made him — — come, come. You know, Melania had some of your stock. You know what happened? When I won, she was forced to sell it. Fantastic. Great job you’re doing. And I do love the F-18 also. I love the F-18. So we’re joined this morning also by Ray Washburne. Where’s Ray? Stand up. What are you doing in the back of the room like that, Ray? Since when have you become shy? Ray was with us from the beginning. Right from the day I announced, Ray felt very strongly about it. And Ray is now the CEO of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation, or OPIC, and Ray is working with the Japan Bank for International Cooperation to invest in bold, new infrastructure projects. This is a major development that will advance our shared interests in the region. I want to thank you for doing such a great job. From day one, the day I met you — perfect job. Thank you very much. And in partnership with the United States, the sovereign nations of the Indo-Pacific will work together to achieve a future of security, prosperity, and peace. We will have more trade than anybody ever thought of under TPP, that I can tell you. TPP was not the right idea. Probably some of you in this room disagree, but ultimately I’ll be proven to be right. We will have much bigger trade with the way we’re doing it right now, and it will be a much less complex situation. We cherish the friendship between the United States and Japan. And I cherish my friendship with Prime Minister Abe. We welcome more Japanese investments into the United States. We believe that a balanced economic partnership will unlock new frontiers for discovery, unleash new prosperity for our citizens, and improve the lives of millions and millions of people all around the world. We’re grateful for everything you do to promote opportunity in both Japan and the United States. We look forward to many years of cooperation, innovation, collaboration, and unbelievable trade — unbelievable trade. It’s happening and it’s going to happen. So I want to thank everybody for being here today. Again, you are the rock stars of business. Amazing people. I hope your family recognize how important you are. Oftentimes, they don’t. Right? But you really are. You’re the rock stars of business, and it’s an honor to be with you. And I think as soon as the media leaves, we’ll do some question and answers. Okay? Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much everybody. END 9:39 A.M. JST
Well, thank you very much. We’ve just heard the very sad stories about family members — daughters, wives, brothers, uncles, fathers. It’s a very, very sad number of stories that we’ve heard. And they were abducted, in all cases, by North Korea. And we will work with Prime Minister Abe on trying to get them back to their loved ones. In some cases, many years ago, they were taken. They were used to learn the language. They were used for many different reasons. But it’s a tremendous disgrace. And I just met some really wonderful people who have gone through a lot. So I will work with Prime Minister Abe. We’ll work together very closely and see if we can bring them back to Japan, where they want to be. Thank you very much.
Thank you very much, General. I appreciate it. And I’m greatly honored to host this lunch, to be joined by the leaders of Côte d’Ivoire, Ethiopia, Ghana, Guinea, Namibia, Nigeria, Senegal, Uganda, and South Africa. In particular, I want to thank President Condé, who is representing the African Union. Thank you. Thank you. In this room, I see partners for promoting prosperity and peace on a range of economic, humanitarian, and security issues. We hope to extend our economic partnerships with countries who are committed to self-reliance and to fostering opportunities for job creation in both Africa and the United States. Africa has tremendous business potential. I have so many friends going to your countries, trying to get rich. I congratulate you. They’re spending a lot of money. But it does — it has a tremendous business potential and representing huge amounts of different markets. And for American firms it’s really become a place that they have to go — that they want to go. of the world’s ten fastest-growing economies are in Africa. Increasing American trade and investment across diverse industries — including agriculture, energy, transportation, healthcare, travel, and tourism — will further transform lives throughout the continent. Secretary Tillerson and the U.S. Millennium Challenge Corporation are already considering an investment worth hundreds of millions of dollars in Côte d’Ivoire, which has made impressive economic reforms. Really, you’ve done a tremendous job. We also hope that African firms — like the company Sasol –consider making investments in the United States. Sasol, as an example, is building a $9 billion petrochemical plant in Louisiana, which will bring new jobs to the state and, really, hardworking Americans will be manning those jobs. we cannot have prosperity if we’re not healthy. We will continue our partnership on critical health initiatives. Uganda has made incredible strides in the battle against HIV/AIDS. In Guinea and Nigeria, you fought a horrifying Ebola outbreak. Namibia’s health system is increasingly self-sufficient. My Secretary of Health and Human Services will be traveling to Africa to promote our Global Health Security Agenda. Yet, we know that our prosperity depends, above all, on peace. The United States will partner with the countries and organizations, like the African Union, that lead successful efforts to end violence, to prevent the spread of terrorism, and to respond to humanitarian crises. I commend your troops currently serving in the field. Very brave. Very, very brave what they’re going through. you well know, too many people are suffering from conflict in Africa. In the Central African Republic, the Congo, Libya, Mali, Somalia, and South Sudan, among others, they’re going through some very, very tough and very dangerous times. Terrorist groups, such as ISIS, al-Shabaab, Boko Haram, and al Qaeda also threaten African peace. The United States is proud to work with you to eradicate terrorist safe havens, to cut off their finances, and to discredit their depraved ideology. And a number of you have told me — actually, last night — that we’ve been doing a very good job over the last six or seven months in particular. We’re closely monitoring and deeply disturbed by the ongoing violence in South Sudan and in the Congo. Millions of lives are at risk, and we continue to provide humanitarian assistance. But real results in halting this catastrophe will require an African-led peace process and a sincere — really sincere commitment of all parties involved. And I know you’re working on that, and you’re working on that very hard. To assist in these efforts, I’m sending Ambassador Nikki Haley to Africa to discuss avenues of conflict and resolution and, most importantly, prevention. I want to discuss our partnership against a global challenge. Today, the world faces an enormous security threat from North Korean regime. We must all stand together and be accountable in implementing United Nations sanctions and resolutions in response to North Korea’s hostile and menacing actions. We believe that a free, independent, and democratic nation, in all cases, is the best vehicle for human happiness and success. Thank you for joining me for this critical discussion of the challenges and the opportunities facing our nations. Africa, I have to say, is a continent of tremendous, tremendous potential. The outlook is bright. I look forward to hearing from you and your advice during the meal. I thought rather than just eating, we’ll have long discussions — and I look forward to that very much. But I also look forward to getting to know so many of you, and so many of you I do know. And it’s an honor. It’s an honor. And I really want to congratulate you — growing very fast economically and in every other way. You’ve done a terrific job, you’ve had some tremendous obstacles placed in your path, but you have done, really, an absolutely incredible job. So I want to thank you, and I look forward to our discussion. Thank you. Thank you all very much. END 1:36 P.M. EDT
Well, thank you very much, Mr. Secretary General. I have to say that, as someone born in New York and raised in New York, it is a great honor to have the United Nations in New York, and always has been. For years I’ve been a critic, but I’ve also been somebody that said that the United Nations has tremendous potential. And under your leadership — and I’ve seen what you’ve done and working with Nikki Haley and all of her friends. She’s made so many friends here, and Rex Tillerson, likewise, has become, really a fixture here. We’re working very hard to solve world problems. But there is no better forum; there can be no better forum. And certainly there can be no better location where everybody comes together. So, I want to congratulate you — the word is “potential.” The potential of the United States, in terms of what it has done has been wonderful. But we can do better, and we’re going to. The potential of the United Nations is unlimited, and I really believe — I’ve met your representatives, and I know you well. You are going to do things that will be epic, and I certainly hope you will. But I feel very, very confident. So I just want to toast everybody in the room. And let’s give this, as a toast, to the potential — the great, great potential of the United Nations. Thank you all for being here. Thank you very much. END 1:34 P.M. EDT
Mr. Secretary General, Mr. President, world leaders, and distinguished delegates: Welcome to New York. It is a profound honor to stand here in my home city, as a representative of the American people, to address the people of the world. As millions of our citizens continue to suffer the effects of the devastating hurricanes that have struck our country, I want to begin by expressing my appreciation to every leader in this room who has offered assistance and aid. The American people are strong and resilient, and they will emerge from these hardships more determined than ever before. Fortunately, the United States has done very well since Election Day last November 8th. The stock market is at an all-time high — a record. Unemployment is at its lowest level in 16 years, and because of our regulatory and other reforms, we have more people working in the United States today than ever before. Companies are moving back, creating job growth the likes of which our country has not seen in a very long time. And it has just been announced that we will be spending almost $700 billion on our military and defense. Our military will soon be the strongest it has ever been. For more than 70 years, in times of war and peace, the leaders of nations, movements, and religions have stood before this assembly. Like them, I intend to address some of the very serious threats before us today but also the enormous potential waiting to be unleashed. We live in a time of extraordinary opportunity. Breakthroughs in science, technology, and medicine are curing illnesses and solving problems that prior generations thought impossible to solve. But each day also brings news of growing dangers that threaten everything we cherish and value. Terrorists and extremists have gathered strength and spread to every region of the planet. Rogue regimes represented in this body not only support terrorists but threaten other nations and their own people with the most destructive weapons known to humanity. Authority and authoritarian powers seek to collapse the values, the systems, and alliances that prevented conflict and tilted the world toward freedom since World War II. International criminal networks traffic drugs, weapons, people; force dislocation and mass migration; threaten our borders; and new forms of aggression exploit technology to menace our citizens. To put it simply, we meet at a time of both of immense promise and great peril. It is entirely up to us whether we lift the world to new heights, or let it fall into a valley of disrepair. We have it in our power, should we so choose, to lift millions from poverty, to help our citizens realize their dreams, and to ensure that new generations of children are raised free from violence, hatred, and fear. This institution was founded in the aftermath of two world wars to help shape this better future. It was based on the vision that diverse nations could cooperate to protect their sovereignty, preserve their security, and promote their prosperity. It was in the same period, exactly 70 years ago, that the United States developed the Marshall Plan to help restore Europe. Those three beautiful pillars — they’re pillars of peace, sovereignty, security, and prosperity. The Marshall Plan was built on the noble idea that the whole world is safer when nations are strong, independent, and free. As President Truman said in his message to Congress at that time, “Our support of European recovery is in full accord with our support of the United Nations. The success of the United Nations depends upon the independent strength of its members.” To overcome the perils of the present and to achieve the promise of the future, we must begin with the wisdom of the past. Our success depends on a coalition of strong and independent nations that embrace their sovereignty to promote security, prosperity, and peace for themselves and for the world. We do not expect diverse countries to share the same cultures, traditions, or even systems of government. But we do expect all nations to uphold these two core sovereign duties: to respect the interests of their own people and the rights of every other sovereign nation. This is the beautiful vision of this institution, and this is foundation for cooperation and success. Strong, sovereign nations let diverse countries with different values, different cultures, and different dreams not just coexist, but work side by side on the basis of mutual respect. Strong, sovereign nations let their people take ownership of the future and control their own destiny. And strong, sovereign nations allow individuals to flourish in the fullness of the life intended by God. In America, we do not seek to impose our way of life on anyone, but rather to let it shine as an example for everyone to watch. This week gives our country a special reason to take pride in that example. We are celebrating the 230th anniversary of our beloved Constitution — the oldest constitution still in use in the world today. This timeless document has been the foundation of peace, prosperity, and freedom for the Americans and for countless millions around the globe whose own countries have found inspiration in its respect for human nature, human dignity, and the rule of law. The greatest in the United States Constitution is its first three beautiful words. They are: “We the people.” Generations of Americans have sacrificed to maintain the promise of those words, the promise of our country, and of our great history. In America, the people govern, the people rule, and the people are sovereign. I was elected not to take power, but to give power to the American people, where it belongs. In foreign affairs, we are renewing this founding principle of sovereignty. Our government’s first duty is to its people, to our citizens — to serve their needs, to ensure their safety, to preserve their rights, and to defend their values. As President of the United States, I will always put America first, just like you, as the leaders of your countries will always, and should always, put your countries first. All responsible leaders have an obligation to serve their own citizens, and the nation-state remains the best vehicle for elevating the human condition. But making a better life for our people also requires us to work together in close harmony and unity to create a more safe and peaceful future for all people. The United States will forever be a great friend to the world, and especially to its allies. But we can no longer be taken advantage of, or enter into a one-sided deal where the United States gets nothing in return. As long as I hold this office, I will defend America’s interests above all else. But in fulfilling our obligations to our own nations, we also realize that it’s in everyone’s interest to seek a future where all nations can be sovereign, prosperous, and secure. America does more than speak for the values expressed in the United Nations Charter. Our citizens have paid the ultimate price to defend our freedom and the freedom of many nations represented in this great hall. America’s devotion is measured on the battlefields where our young men and women have fought and sacrificed alongside of our allies, from the beaches of Europe to the deserts of the Middle East to the jungles of Asia. It is an eternal credit to the American character that even after we and our allies emerged victorious from the bloodiest war in history, we did not seek territorial expansion, or attempt to oppose and impose our way of life on others. Instead, we helped build institutions such as this one to defend the sovereignty, security, and prosperity for all. For the diverse nations of the world, this is our hope. We want harmony and friendship, not conflict and strife. We are guided by outcomes, not ideology. We have a policy of principled realism, rooted in shared goals, interests, and values. That realism forces us to confront a question facing every leader and nation in this room. It is a question we cannot escape or avoid. We will slide down the path of complacency, numb to the challenges, threats, and even wars that we face. Or do we have enough strength and pride to confront those dangers today, so that our citizens can enjoy peace and prosperity tomorrow? If we desire to lift up our citizens, if we aspire to the approval of history, then we must fulfill our sovereign duties to the people we faithfully represent. We must protect our nations, their interests, and their futures. We must reject threats to sovereignty, from the Ukraine to the South China Sea. We must uphold respect for law, respect for borders, and respect for culture, and the peaceful engagement these allow. And just as the founders of this body intended, we must work together and confront together those who threaten us with chaos, turmoil, and terror. The scourge of our planet today is a small group of rogue regimes that violate every principle on which the United Nations is based. They respect neither their own citizens nor the sovereign rights of their countries. If the righteous many do not confront the wicked few, then evil will triumph. When decent people and nations become bystanders to history, the forces of destruction only gather power and strength. No one has shown more contempt for other nations and for the wellbeing of their own people than the depraved regime in North Korea. It is responsible for the starvation deaths of millions of North Koreans, and for the imprisonment, torture, killing, and oppression of countless more. We were all witness to the regime’s deadly abuse when an innocent American college student, Otto Warmbier, was returned to America only to die a few days later. We saw it in the assassination of the dictator’s brother using banned nerve agents in an international airport. We know it kidnapped a sweet 13-year-old Japanese girl from a beach in her own country to enslave her as a language tutor for North Korea’s spies. If this is not twisted enough, now North Korea’s reckless pursuit of nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles threatens the entire world with unthinkable loss of human life. It is an outrage that some nations would not only trade with such a regime, but would arm, supply, and financially support a country that imperils the world with nuclear conflict. No nation on earth has an interest in seeing this band of criminals arm itself with nuclear weapons and missiles. The United States has great strength and patience, but if it is forced to defend itself or its allies, we will have no choice but to totally destroy North Korea. Rocket Man is on a suicide mission for himself and for his regime. The United States is ready, willing and able, but hopefully this will not be necessary. That’s what the United Nations is all about; that’s what the United Nations is for. Let’s see how they do. It is time for North Korea to realize that the denuclearization is its only acceptable future. The United Nations Security Council recently held two unanimous 15-0 votes adopting hard-hitting resolutions against North Korea, and I want to thank China and Russia for joining the vote to impose sanctions, along with all of the other members of the Security Council. Thank you to all involved. But we must do much more. It is time for all nations to work together to isolate the Kim regime until it ceases its hostile behavior. We face this decision not only in North Korea. It is far past time for the nations of the world to confront another reckless regime — one that speaks openly of mass murder, vowing death to America, destruction to Israel, and ruin for many leaders and nations in this room. The Iranian government masks a corrupt dictatorship behind the false guise of a democracy. It has turned a wealthy country with a rich history and culture into an economically depleted rogue state whose chief exports are violence, bloodshed, and chaos. The longest-suffering victims of Iran’s leaders are, in fact, its own people. Rather than use its resources to improve Iranian lives, its oil profits go to fund Hezbollah and other terrorists that kill innocent Muslims and attack their peaceful Arab and Israeli neighbors. This wealth, which rightly belongs to Iran’s people, also goes to shore up Bashar al-Assad’s dictatorship, fuel Yemen’s civil war, and undermine peace throughout the entire Middle East. We cannot let a murderous regime continue these destabilizing activities while building dangerous missiles, and we cannot abide by an agreement if it provides cover for the eventual construction of a nuclear program. The Iran Deal was one of the worst and most one-sided transactions the United States has ever entered into. Frankly, that deal is an embarrassment to the United States, and I don’t think you’ve heard the last of it — believe me. It is time for the entire world to join us in demanding that Iran’s government end its pursuit of death and destruction. It is time for the regime to free all Americans and citizens of other nations that they have unjustly detained. And above all, Iran’s government must stop supporting terrorists, begin serving its own people, and respect the sovereign rights of its neighbors. The entire world understands that the good people of Iran want change, and, other than the vast military power of the United States, that Iran’s people are what their leaders fear the most. This is what causes the regime to restrict Internet access, tear down satellite dishes, shoot unarmed student protestors, and imprison political reformers. Oppressive regimes cannot endure forever, and the day will come when the Iranian people will face a choice. Will they continue down the path of poverty, bloodshed, and terror? Or will the Iranian people return to the nation’s proud roots as a center of civilization, culture, and wealth where their people can be happy and prosperous once again? The Iranian regime’s support for terror is in stark contrast to the recent commitments of many of its neighbors to fight terrorism and halt its financing. In Saudi Arabia early last year, I was greatly honored to address the leaders of more than 50 Arab and Muslim nations. We agreed that all responsible nations must work together to confront terrorists and the Islamist extremism that inspires them. We will stop radical Islamic terrorism because we cannot allow it to tear up our nation, and indeed to tear up the entire world. We must deny the terrorists safe haven, transit, funding, and any form of support for their vile and sinister ideology. We must drive them out of our nations. It is time to expose and hold responsible those countries who support and finance terror groups like al Qaeda, Hezbollah, the Taliban and others that slaughter innocent people. The United States and our allies are working together throughout the Middle East to crush the loser terrorists and stop the reemergence of safe havens they use to launch attacks on all of our people. Last month, I announced a new strategy for victory in the fight against this evil in Afghanistan. From now on, our security interests will dictate the length and scope of military operations, not arbitrary benchmarks and timetables set up by politicians. I have also totally changed the rules of engagement in our fight against the Taliban and other terrorist groups. In Syria and Iraq, we have made big gains toward lasting defeat of ISIS. In fact, our country has achieved more against ISIS in the last eight months than it has in many, many years combined. We seek the de-escalation of the Syrian conflict, and a political solution that honors the will of the Syrian people. The actions of the criminal regime of Bashar al-Assad, including the use of chemical weapons against his own citizens — even innocent children — shock the conscience of every decent person. No society can be safe if banned chemical weapons are allowed to spread. That is why the United States carried out a missile strike on the airbase that launched the attack. We appreciate the efforts of United Nations agencies that are providing vital humanitarian assistance in areas liberated from ISIS, and we especially thank Jordan, Turkey and Lebanon for their role in hosting refugees from the Syrian conflict. The United States is a compassionate nation and has spent billions and billions of dollars in helping to support this effort. We seek an approach to refugee resettlement that is designed to help these horribly treated people, and which enables their eventual return to their home countries, to be part of the rebuilding process. For the cost of resettling one refugee in the United States, we can assist more than 10 in their home region. Out of the goodness of our hearts, we offer financial assistance to hosting countries in the region, and we support recent agreements of the G20 nations that will seek to host refugees as close to their home countries as possible. This is the safe, responsible, and humanitarian approach. For decades, the United States has dealt with migration challenges here in the Western Hemisphere. We have learned that, over the long term, uncontrolled migration is deeply unfair to both the sending and the receiving countries. For the sending countries, it reduces domestic pressure to pursue needed political and economic reform, and drains them of the human capital necessary to motivate and implement those reforms. For the receiving countries, the substantial costs of uncontrolled migration are borne overwhelmingly by low-income citizens whose concerns are often ignored by both media and government. I want to salute the work of the United Nations in seeking to address the problems that cause people to flee from their homes. The United Nations and African Union led peacekeeping missions to have invaluable contributions in stabilizing conflicts in Africa. The United States continues to lead the world in humanitarian assistance, including famine prevention and relief in South Sudan, Somalia, and northern Nigeria and Yemen. We have invested in better health and opportunity all over the world through programs like PEPFAR, which funds AIDS relief; the President’s Malaria Initiative; the Global Health Security Agenda; the Global Fund to End Modern Slavery; and the Women Entrepreneurs Finance Initiative, part of our commitment to empowering women all across the globe. We also thank — — we also thank the Secretary General for recognizing that the United Nations must reform if it is to be an effective partner in confronting threats to sovereignty, security, and prosperity. Too often the focus of this organization has not been on results, but on bureaucracy and process. In some cases, states that seek to subvert this institution’s noble aims have hijacked the very systems that are supposed to advance them. For example, it is a massive source of embarrassment to the United Nations that some governments with egregious human rights records sit on the U.N. Human Rights Council. The United States is one out of 193 countries in the United Nations, and yet we pay 22 percent of the entire budget and more. In fact, we pay far more than anybody realizes. The United States bears an unfair cost burden, but, to be fair, if it could actually accomplish all of its stated goals, especially the goal of peace, this investment would easily be well worth it. Major portions of the world are in conflict and some, in fact, are going to hell. But the powerful people in this room, under the guidance and auspices of the United Nations, can solve many of these vicious and complex problems. The American people hope that one day soon the United Nations can be a much more accountable and effective advocate for human dignity and freedom around the world. In the meantime, we believe that no nation should have to bear a disproportionate share of the burden, militarily or financially. Nations of the world must take a greater role in promoting secure and prosperous societies in their own regions. That is why in the Western Hemisphere, the United States has stood against the corrupt and destabilizing regime in Cuba and embraced the enduring dream of the Cuban people to live in freedom. My administration recently announced that we will not lift sanctions on the Cuban government until it makes fundamental reforms. We have also imposed tough, calibrated sanctions on the socialist Maduro regime in Venezuela, which has brought a once thriving nation to the brink of total collapse. The socialist dictatorship of Nicolas Maduro has inflicted terrible pain and suffering on the good people of that country. This corrupt regime destroyed a prosperous nation by imposing a failed ideology that has produced poverty and misery everywhere it has been tried. To make matters worse, Maduro has defied his own people, stealing power from their elected representatives to preserve his disastrous rule. The Venezuelan people are starving and their country is collapsing. Their democratic institutions are being destroyed. This situation is completely unacceptable and we cannot stand by and watch. As a responsible neighbor and friend, we and all others have a goal. That goal is to help them regain their freedom, recover their country, and restore their democracy. I would like to thank leaders in this room for condemning the regime and providing vital support to the Venezuelan people. The United States has taken important steps to hold the regime accountable. We are prepared to take further action if the government of Venezuela persists on its path to impose authoritarian rule on the Venezuelan people. We are fortunate to have incredibly strong and healthy trade relationships with many of the Latin American countries gathered here today. Our economic bond forms a critical foundation for advancing peace and prosperity for all of our people and all of our neighbors. I ask every country represented here today to be prepared to do more to address this very real crisis. We call for the full restoration of democracy and political freedoms in Venezuela. The problem in Venezuela is not that socialism has been poorly implemented, but that socialism has been faithfully implemented. From the Soviet Union to Cuba to Venezuela, wherever true socialism or communism has been adopted, it has delivered anguish and devastation and failure. Those who preach the tenets of these discredited ideologies only contribute to the continued suffering of the people who live under these cruel systems. America stands with every person living under a brutal regime. Our respect for sovereignty is also a call for action. All people deserve a government that cares for their safety, their interests, and their wellbeing, including their prosperity. In America, we seek stronger ties of business and trade with all nations of good will, but this trade must be fair and it must be reciprocal. For too long, the American people were told that mammoth multinational trade deals, unaccountable international tribunals, and powerful global bureaucracies were the best way to promote their success. But as those promises flowed, millions of jobs vanished and thousands of factories disappeared. Others gamed the system and broke the rules. And our great middle class, once the bedrock of American prosperity, was forgotten and left behind, but they are forgotten no more and they will never be forgotten again. While America will pursue cooperation and commerce with other nations, we are renewing our commitment to the first duty of every government: the duty of our citizens. This bond is the source of America’s strength and that of every responsible nation represented here today. If this organization is to have any hope of successfully confronting the challenges before us, it will depend, as President Truman said some 70 years ago, on the “independent strength of its members.” If we are to embrace the opportunities of the future and overcome the present dangers together, there can be no substitute for strong, sovereign, and independent nations — nations that are rooted in their histories and invested in their destinies; nations that seek allies to befriend, not enemies to conquer; and most important of all, nations that are home to patriots, to men and women who are willing to sacrifice for their countries, their fellow citizens, and for all that is best in the human spirit. In remembering the great victory that led to this body’s founding, we must never forget that those heroes who fought against evil also fought for the nations that they loved. Patriotism led the Poles to die to save Poland, the French to fight for a free France, and the Brits to stand strong for Britain. Today, if we do not invest ourselves, our hearts, and our minds in our nations, if we will not build strong families, safe communities, and healthy societies for ourselves, no one can do it for us. We cannot wait for someone else, for faraway countries or far-off bureaucrats — we can’t do it. We must solve our problems, to build our prosperity, to secure our futures, or we will be vulnerable to decay, domination, and defeat. The true question for the United Nations today, for people all over the world who hope for better lives for themselves and their children, is a basic one: Are we still patriots? Do we love our nations enough to protect their sovereignty and to take ownership of their futures? Do we revere them enough to defend their interests, preserve their cultures, and ensure a peaceful world for their citizens? One of the greatest American patriots, John Adams, wrote that the American Revolution was “effected before the war commenced. The Revolution was in the minds and hearts of the people.” That was the moment when America awoke, when we looked around and understood that we were a nation. We realized who we were, what we valued, and what we would give our lives to defend. From its very first moments, the American story is the story of what is possible when people take ownership of their future. The United States of America has been among the greatest forces for good in the history of the world, and the greatest defenders of sovereignty, security, and prosperity for all. Now we are calling for a great reawakening of nations, for the revival of their spirits, their pride, their people, and their patriotism. History is asking us whether we are up to the task. Our answer will be a renewal of will, a rediscovery of resolve, and a rebirth of devotion. We need to defeat the enemies of humanity and unlock the potential of life itself. Our hope is a word and — world of proud, independent nations that embrace their duties, seek friendship, respect others, and make common cause in the greatest shared interest of all: a future of dignity and peace for the people of this wonderful Earth. This is the true vision of the United Nations, the ancient wish of every people, and the deepest yearning that lives inside every sacred soul. So let this be our mission, and let this be our message to the world: We will fight together, sacrifice together, and stand together for peace, for freedom, for justice, for family, for humanity, and for the almighty God who made us all. Thank you. God bless you. God bless the nations of the world. And God bless the United States of America. Thank you very much. END 10:46 A.M. EDT
Well, thank you very much. Thank you. I actually saw great potential right across the street, to be honest with you, and it was only for the reason that the United Nations was here that that turned out to be such a successful project. So I want to thank you, Ambassador Haley, for your introduction and for your steadfast advocacy for American interests on the world stage. On behalf of the co-host countries, I would like to also thank Secretary General Guterres for — and you have been fantastic — for joining us, and we affirm our commitment to the United Nations reform. And reform is what we’re talking about. I applaud the Secretary General for laying out a vision to reform the United Nations so that it better serves the people we all represent. We support your efforts to look across the entire system and to find ways the United Nations can better, and be better at development, management, peace, and security. The United Nations was founded on truly noble goals. These include affirming the dignity and worth of the human person and striving for international peace. The United Nations has helped advance toward these goals in so many ways: feeding the hungry, providing disaster relief, and empowering women and girls in many societies all across the world. Yet in recent years, the United Nations has not reached its full potential because of bureaucracy and mismanagement. While the United Nations on a regular budget has increased by 140 percent, and its staff has more than doubled since 2000, we are not seeing the results in line with this investment. But I know that under the Secretary General, that’s changing and it’s changing fast. And we’ve seen it. That’s why we commend the Secretary General and his call for the United Nations to focus more on people and less on bureaucracy. We seek a United Nations that regains the trust of the people around the world. In order to achieve this, the United Nations must hold every level of management accountable, protect whistle-blowers and focus on results rather than on process. To honor the people of our nations, we must ensure that no one and no member state shoulders a disproportionate share of the burden, and that’s militarily or financially. We also ask that every peacekeeping mission have clearly defined goals and metrics for evaluating success. They deserve to see the value in the United Nations, and it is our job to show it to them. We encourage the Secretary General to fully use his authority to cut through the bureaucracy, reform outdated systems, and make firm decisions to advance the U.N.’s core mission. Further, we encourage all member states to look at ways to take bold stands at the United Nations with an eye toward changing business as usual and not being beholden to ways of the past which were not working. Mr. Secretary General, the United States and the member states present today support this great reform vision. We pledge to be partners in your work, and I am confident that if we work together and champion truly bold reforms, the United Nations will emerge as a stronger, more effective, more just, and greater force for peace and harmony in the world. Thank you, Mr. Secretary General. And I look forward to advancing these shared goals in the years to come, and it is a great honor to be with you today. Thank you. END 10:04 A.M. EDT
Well, we had a great group of people together, and really done a fantastic job together. I’d like to thank Prime Minister May for being with us. We’ve had tremendous talks. There is no country that could possibly be closer than our countries. And I just want to say thank you very much. We are working on a trade deal — a very, very big deal, a very powerful deal. Great for both countries. And I think we’ll have that done very, very quickly. We have all of our trade people. We have Wilbur Ross with us. We have all of the trade people. Rex and I had a tremendous meeting yesterday with President Putin, and we’ve had really great meetings with a lot of people. We’re having a lot today. But Prime Minister May and I have developed a very special relationship, and I think trade will be a very big factor between our two countries. I want to thank you very much. Q Will you be going to London? I will be going to London, yes. Q When will you be going, sir? We’ll work that out. We will be going to London. We’ll be going to London. END 9:05 A.M. CET
Well, thank you, Mr. President. And on behalf of the United States, I would like to just say that it’s an honor to have gotten to know you. We are developing, and have developed, a wonderful relationship. I appreciate the things that you have done relevant to the very substantial problem that we all face in North Korea — a problem that something has to be done about. And I’m sure that whether it’s on trade or whether it’s on North Korea, or any of the many things that we will be discussing, we will come to a successful conclusion. Trade is, as you know, as very, very big issue for the United States now, because for years, and certainly over a long period of time, many things have happened that have led to trade imbalances. And we’re going to turn that around. And I know that China in particular, which is a great trading partner, we will be able to do something that will be equitable and reciprocal. As far as North Korea is concerned, we will have, eventually, success. It may take longer than I’d like. It may take longer than you’d like. But there will be success in the end one way or the other. I want to thank you very much for inviting us. And again, it’s an honor to get to know you and your wife, a really wonderful woman. And it’s an honor to have you as a friend. Thank you very much. END 3:55 P.M. CET
Thank you very much. That’s so nice. The United States has many great diplomats, but there is truly no better ambassador for our country than our beautiful First Lady, Melania. Thank you, Melania. That was very nice. We’ve come to your nation to deliver a very important message: America loves Poland, and America loves the Polish people. Thank you. The Poles have not only greatly enriched this region, but Polish-Americans have also greatly enriched the United States, and I was truly proud to have their support in the 2016 election. It is a profound honor to stand in this city, by this monument to the Warsaw Uprising, and to address the Polish nation that so many generations have dreamed of: a Poland that is safe, strong, and free. President Duda and your wonderful First Lady, Agata, have welcomed us with the tremendous warmth and kindness for which Poland is known around the world. Thank you. My sincere — and I mean sincerely thank both of them. And to Prime Minister Syzdlo, a very special thanks also. We are also pleased that former President Lech Walesa, so famous for leading the Solidarity Movement, has joined us today, also. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. On behalf of all Americans, let me also thank the entire Polish people for the generosity you have shown in welcoming our soldiers to your country. These soldiers are not only brave defenders of freedom, but also symbols of America’s commitment to your security and your place in a strong and democratic Europe. We are proudly joined on stage by American, Polish, British, and Romanian soldiers. Thank you. Thank you. Great job. President Duda and I have just come from an incredibly successful meeting with the leaders participating in the Three Seas Initiative. To the citizens of this great region, America is eager to expand our partnership with you. We welcome stronger ties of trade and commerce as you grow your economies. And we are committed to securing your access to alternate sources of energy, so Poland and its neighbors are never again held hostage to a single supplier of energy. Mr. President, I congratulate you, along with the President of Croatia, on your leadership of this historic Three Seas Initiative. Thank you. This is my first visit to Central Europe as President, and I am thrilled that it could be right here at this magnificent, beautiful piece of land. It is beautiful. Poland is the geographic heart of Europe, but more importantly, in the Polish people, we see the soul of Europe. Your nation is great because your spirit is great and your spirit is strong. For two centuries, Poland suffered constant and brutal attacks. But while Poland could be invaded and occupied, and its borders even erased from the map, it could never be erased from history or from your hearts. In those dark days, you have lost your land but you never lost your pride. So it is with true admiration that I can say today, that from the farms and villages of your countryside to the cathedrals and squares of your great cities, Poland lives, Poland prospers, and Poland prevails. Despite every effort to transform you, oppress you, or destroy you, you endured and overcame. You are the proud nation of Copernicus — think of that — — Chopin, Saint John Paul II. Poland is a land of great heroes. And you are a people who know the true value of what you defend. The triumph of the Polish spirit over centuries of hardship gives us all hope for a future in which good conquers evil, and peace achieves victory over war. For Americans, Poland has been a symbol of hope since the beginning of our nation. Polish heroes and American patriots fought side by side in our War of Independence and in many wars that followed. Our soldiers still serve together today in Afghanistan and Iraq, combatting the enemies of all civilization. For America’s part, we have never given up on freedom and independence as the right and destiny of the Polish people, and we never, ever will. Our two countries share a special bond forged by unique histories and national characters. It’s a fellowship that exists only among people who have fought and bled and died for freedom. The signs of this friendship stand in our nation’s capital. Just steps from the White House, we’ve raised statues of men with names like Pułaski and Kościuszko. The same is true in Warsaw, where street signs carry the name of George Washington, and a monument stands to one of the world’s greatest heroes, Ronald Reagan. And so I am here today not just to visit an old ally, but to hold it up as an example for others who seek freedom and who wish to summon the courage and the will to defend our civilization. The story of Poland is the story of a people who have never lost hope, who have never been broken, and who have never, ever forgotten who they are. Thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you so much. Such a great honor. This is a nation more than one thousand years old. Your borders were erased for more than a century and only restored just one century ago. In 1920, in the Miracle of Vistula, Poland stopped the Soviet army bent on European conquest. Then, 19 years later in 1939, you were invaded yet again, this time by Nazi Germany from the west and the Soviet Union from the east. That’s trouble. That’s tough. Under a double occupation the Polish people endured evils beyond description: the Katyn forest massacre, the occupations, the Holocaust, the Warsaw Ghetto and the Warsaw Ghetto Uprising, the destruction of this beautiful capital city, and the deaths of nearly one in five Polish people. A vibrant Jewish population — the largest in Europe — was reduced to almost nothing after the Nazis systematically murdered millions of Poland’s Jewish citizens, along with countless others, during that brutal occupation. In the summer of 1944, the Nazi and Soviet armies were preparing for a terrible and bloody battle right here in Warsaw. Amid that hell on earth, the citizens of Poland rose up to defend their homeland. I am deeply honored to be joined on stage today by veterans and heroes of the Warsaw Uprising. What great spirit. We salute your noble sacrifice and we pledge to always remember your fight for Poland and for freedom. Thank you. Thank you. This monument reminds us that more than 150,000 Poles died during that desperate struggle to overthrow oppression. From the other side of the river, the Soviet armed forces stopped and waited. They watched as the Nazis ruthlessly destroyed the city, viciously murdering men, women, and children. They tried to destroy this nation forever by shattering its will to survive. But there is a courage and a strength deep in the Polish character that no one could destroy. The Polish martyr, Bishop Michael Kozal, said it well: “More horrifying than a defeat of arms is a collapse of the human spirit.” Through four decades of communist rule, Poland and the other captive nations of Europe endured a brutal campaign to demolish freedom, your faith, your laws, your history, your identity — indeed the very essence of your culture and your humanity. Yet, through it all, you never lost that spirit. Your oppressors tried to break you, but Poland could not be broken. And when the day came on June 2nd, 1979, and one million Poles gathered around Victory Square for their very first mass with their Polish Pope, that day, every communist in Warsaw must have known that their oppressive system would soon come crashing down. They must have known it at the exact moment during Pope John Paul II’s sermon when a million Polish men, women, and children suddenly raised their voices in a single prayer. A million Polish people did not ask for wealth. They did not ask for privilege. Instead, one million Poles sang three simple words: “We Want God.” In those words, the Polish people recalled the promise of a better future. They found new courage to face down their oppressors, and they found the words to declare that Poland would be Poland once again. As I stand here today before this incredible crowd, this faithful nation, we can still hear those voices that echo through history. Their message is as true today as ever. The people of Poland, the people of America, and the people of Europe still cry out “We want God.” Together, with Pope John Paul II, the Poles reasserted their identity as a nation devoted to God. And with that powerful declaration of who you are, you came to understand what to do and how to live. You stood in solidarity against oppression, against a lawless secret police, against a cruel and wicked system that impoverished your cities and your souls. And you won. Poland prevailed. Poland will always prevail. Thank you. You were supported in that victory over communism by a strong alliance of free nations in the West that defied tyranny. Now, among the most committed members of the NATO Alliance, Poland has resumed its place as a leading nation of a Europe that is strong, whole, and free. A strong Poland is a blessing to the nations of Europe, and they know that. A strong Europe is a blessing to the West and to the world. One hundred years after the entry of American forces into World War I, the transatlantic bond between the United States and Europe is as strong as ever and maybe, in many ways, even stronger. This continent no longer confronts the specter of communism. But today we’re in the West, and we have to say there are dire threats to our security and to our way of life. You see what’s happening out there. They are threats. We will confront them. We will win. But they are threats. We are confronted by another oppressive ideology — one that seeks to export terrorism and extremism all around the globe. America and Europe have suffered one terror attack after another. We’re going to get it to stop. During a historic gathering in Saudi Arabia, I called on the leaders of more than 50 Muslim nations to join together to drive out this menace which threatens all of humanity. We must stand united against these shared enemies to strip them of their territory and their funding, and their networks, and any form of ideological support that they may have. While we will always welcome new citizens who share our values and love our people, our borders will always be closed to terrorism and extremism of any kind. We are fighting hard against radical Islamic terrorism, and we will prevail. We cannot accept those who reject our values and who use hatred to justify violence against the innocent. Today, the West is also confronted by the powers that seek to test our will, undermine our confidence, and challenge our interests. To meet new forms of aggression, including propaganda, financial crimes, and cyberwarfare, we must adapt our alliance to compete effectively in new ways and on all new battlefields. We urge Russia to cease its destabilizing activities in Ukraine and elsewhere, and its support for hostile regimes — including Syria and Iran — and to instead join the community of responsible nations in our fight against common enemies and in defense of civilization itself. Finally, on both sides of the Atlantic, our citizens are confronted by yet another danger — one firmly within our control. This danger is invisible to some but familiar to the Poles: the steady creep of government bureaucracy that drains the vitality and wealth of the people. The West became great not because of paperwork and regulations but because people were allowed to chase their dreams and pursue their destinies. Americans, Poles, and the nations of Europe value individual freedom and sovereignty. We must work together to confront forces, whether they come from inside or out, from the South or the East, that threaten over time to undermine these values and to erase the bonds of culture, faith and tradition that make us who we are. If left unchecked, these forces will undermine our courage, sap our spirit, and weaken our will to defend ourselves and our societies. But just as our adversaries and enemies of the past learned here in Poland, we know that these forces, too, are doomed to fail if we want them to fail. And we do, indeed, want them to fail. They are doomed not only because our alliance is strong, our countries are resilient, and our power is unmatched. Through all of that, you have to say everything is true. Our adversaries, however, are doomed because we will never forget who we are. And if we don’t forget who are, we just can’t be beaten. Americans will never forget. The nations of Europe will never forget. We are the fastest and the greatest community. There is nothing like our community of nations. The world has never known anything like our community of nations. We write symphonies. We pursue innovation. We celebrate our ancient heroes, embrace our timeless traditions and customs, and always seek to explore and discover brand-new frontiers. We reward brilliance. We strive for excellence, and cherish inspiring works of art that honor God. We treasure the rule of law and protect the right to free speech and free expression. We empower women as pillars of our society and of our success. We put faith and family, not government and bureaucracy, at the center of our lives. And we debate everything. We challenge everything. We seek to know everything so that we can better know ourselves. And above all, we value the dignity of every human life, protect the rights of every person, and share the hope of every soul to live in freedom. That is who we are. Those are the priceless ties that bind us together as nations, as allies, and as a civilization. What we have, what we inherited from our — and you know this better than anybody, and you see it today with this incredible group of people — what we’ve inherited from our ancestors has never existed to this extent before. And if we fail to preserve it, it will never, ever exist again. So we cannot fail. This great community of nations has something else in common: In every one of them, it is the people, not the powerful, who have always formed the foundation of freedom and the cornerstone of our defense. The people have been that foundation here in Poland — as they were right here in Warsaw — and they were the foundation from the very, very beginning in America. Our citizens did not win freedom together, did not survive horrors together, did not face down evil together, only to lose our freedom to a lack of pride and confidence in our values. We did not and we will not. We will never back down. As long as we know our history, we will know how to build our future. Americans know that a strong alliance of free, sovereign and independent nations is the best defense for our freedoms and for our interests. That is why my administration has demanded that all members of NATO finally meet their full and fair financial obligation. As a result of this insistence, billions of dollars more have begun to pour into NATO. In fact, people are shocked. But billions and billions of dollars more are coming in from countries that, in my opinion, would not have been paying so quickly. To those who would criticize our tough stance, I would point out that the United States has demonstrated not merely with words but with its actions that we stand firmly behind Article 5, the mutual defense commitment. Words are easy, but actions are what matters. And for its own protection — and you know this, everybody knows this, everybody has to know this — Europe must do more. Europe must demonstrate that it believes in its future by investing its money to secure that future. That is why we applaud Poland for its decision to move forward this week on acquiring from the United States the battle-tested Patriot air and missile defense system — the best anywhere in the world. That is also why we salute the Polish people for being one of the NATO countries that has actually achieved the benchmark for investment in our common defense. Thank you. Thank you, Poland. I must tell you, the example you set is truly magnificent, and we applaud Poland. Thank you. We have to remember that our defense is not just a commitment of money, it is a commitment of will. Because as the Polish experience reminds us, the defense of the West ultimately rests not only on means but also on the will of its people to prevail and be successful and get what you have to have. The fundamental question of our time is whether the West has the will to survive. Do we have the confidence in our values to defend them at any cost? Do we have enough respect for our citizens to protect our borders? Do we have the desire and the courage to preserve our civilization in the face of those who would subvert and destroy it? We can have the largest economies and the most lethal weapons anywhere on Earth, but if we do not have strong families and strong values, then we will be weak and we will not survive. If anyone forgets the critical importance of these things, let them come to one country that never has. Let them come to Poland. And let them come here, to Warsaw, and learn the story of the Warsaw Uprising. When they do, they should learn about Jerusalem Avenue. In August of 1944, Jerusalem Avenue was one of the main roads running east and west through this city, just as it is today. Control of that road was crucially important to both sides in the battle for Warsaw. The German military wanted it as their most direct route to move troops and to form a very strong front. And for the Polish Home Army, the ability to pass north and south across that street was critical to keep the center of the city, and the Uprising itself, from being split apart and destroyed. Every night, the Poles put up sandbags amid machine gun fire — and it was horrendous fire — to protect a narrow passage across Jerusalem Avenue. Every day, the enemy forces knocked them down again and again and again. Then the Poles dug a trench. Finally, they built a barricade. And the brave Polish fighters began to flow across Jerusalem Avenue. That narrow passageway, just a few feet wide, was the fragile link that kept the Uprising alive. Between its walls, a constant stream of citizens and freedom fighters made their perilous, just perilous, sprints. They ran across that street, they ran through that street, they ran under that street — all to defend this city. “The far side was several yards away,” recalled one young Polish woman named Greta. That mortality and that life was so important to her. In fact, she said, “The mortally dangerous sector of the street was soaked in the blood. It was the blood of messengers, liaison girls, and couriers.” Nazi snipers shot at anybody who crossed. Anybody who crossed, they were being shot at. Their soldiers burned every building on the street, and they used the Poles as human shields for their tanks in their effort to capture Jerusalem Avenue. The enemy never ceased its relentless assault on that small outpost of civilization. And the Poles never ceased its defense. The Jerusalem Avenue passage required constant protection, repair, and reinforcement, but the will of its defenders did not waver, even in the face of death. And to the last days of the Uprising, the fragile crossing never, ever failed. It was never, ever forgotten. It was kept open by the Polish people. The memories of those who perished in the Warsaw Uprising cry out across the decades, and few are clearer than the memories of those who died to build and defend the Jerusalem Avenue crossing. Those heroes remind us that the West was saved with the blood of patriots; that each generation must rise up and play their part in its defense — — and that every foot of ground, and every last inch of civilization, is worth defending with your life. Our own fight for the West does not begin on the battlefield — it begins with our minds, our wills, and our souls. Today, the ties that unite our civilization are no less vital, and demand no less defense, than that bare shred of land on which the hope of Poland once totally rested. Our freedom, our civilization, and our survival depend on these bonds of history, culture, and memory. And today as ever, Poland is in our heart, and its people are in that fight. Just as Poland could not be broken, I declare today for the world to hear that the West will never, ever be broken. Our values will prevail. Our people will thrive. And our civilization will triumph. Thank you. So, together, let us all fight like the Poles — for family, for freedom, for country, and for God. Thank you. God Bless You. God bless the Polish people. God bless our allies. And God bless the United States of America. Thank you. God bless you. Thank you very much. END 1:55 P.M. CEST
Thank you, everybody. Thank you very much. Great honor. And thank you to my truly great friend, Vice President Mike Pence — he’s terrific. And thank you to Miami. We love Miami. Let me start by saying that I’m glad Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and I, along with a very talented team, were able to get Otto Warmbier back with his parents. What’s happened to him is a truly terrible thing, but at least the ones who love him so much can now take care of him and be with him. Also, my dear friend, Steve Scalise, took a bullet for all of us. And because of him, and the tremendous pain and suffering he’s now enduring — he’s having a hard time, far worse than anybody thought — our country will perhaps become closer, more unified. So important. So we all owe Steve a big, big thank you. And let’s keep the Warmbier family, and the Scalise family, and all of the victims of the congressional shooting, in our hearts and prayers. And it was quite a day and our police officers were incredible, weren’t they? They did a great job. And let us all pray for a future of peace, unity and safety for all of our people. Thank you. And for Cuba. I am so thrilled to be back here with all of my friends in Little Havana. I love it. I love this city. Thank you. Thank you. This is an amazing community, the Cuban-American community — so much love. I saw that immediately. Thank you, darling. Oh do I love you, too. What you have built here — a vibrant culture, a thriving neighborhood, the spirit of adventure — is a testament to what a free Cuba could be. And with God’s help, a free Cuba is what we will soon achieve. And I don’t even mind that it is 110 degrees up here. This room is packed. You know, it wasn’t designed for this. I would like to thank the fire department. We are delighted to be joined by so many friends and leaders of our great community. I want to express our deep gratitude to a man who has really become a friend of mine — and I want to tell you, he is one tough competitor — Senator Marco Rubio. Great guy. He is tough, man. He is tough and he’s good, and he loves you. He loves you. And I listened to another friend of mine, Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart — — and I’ll tell you, I loved what he said, and I appreciate it. Mario, I appreciated what you said so much. In fact I was looking for Mario. I wanted to find him — they said he was onstage. I almost dragged him off the stage to thank him, but now I’m thanking you anyway. Thank you, Mario. That was great. Really appreciate it. And I also want to thank my good friend, and just a man who was of tremendous support in the state of Florida, for being with us — Governor Rick Scott. Great job. He’s doing a great job. I hope he runs for the Senate. I know I’m not supposed to say that. I hope he runs for the Senate. Rick, are you running? I don’t know. Marco, let’s go, come on. We got to get him to — I hope he runs for the Senate. We are deeply honored to be joined by amazing Veterans of the Bay of Pigs. These are great people, amazing people. I have wonderful memories from our visit during the campaign. That was some visit. That was right before the election. I guess it worked, right? Boy, Florida, as a whole, and this community supported us by tremendous margins. We appreciate it. But including one of the big honors, and that was the honor of getting the Bay of Pigs award just before the election, and it’s great to be gathered in a place named for a true hero of the Cuban people. And you know what that means. I was also looking forward to welcoming today two people who are not present — José Daniel Ferrer and Berta Soler — — were both prevented from leaving Cuba for this event. So we acknowledge them. They’re great friends — great help. And although they could not be with us, we are with them 100 percent. We are with them. Right? Finally, I want to recognize everyone in the audience who has their own painful but important story to tell about the true and brutal nature of the Castro regime. Brutal. We thank the dissidents, the exiles, and the children of Operation Peter Pan — you know what that means — — and all who gather in the cafes, churches, and the streets in this incredible area and city to speak the truth and to stand for justice. And we want to thank you all for being a voice for the voiceless. There are people –- it’s voiceless, but you are making up the difference, and we all want to thank you. This group is amazing. Just an incredible –- you are an incredible group of talented, passionate people. Thank you. Incredible group of people. Many of you witnessed terrible crimes committed in service of a depraved ideology. You saw the dreams of generations held by captive, and just, literally, you look at what happened and what communism has done. You knew faces that disappeared, innocents locked in prisons, and believers persecuted for preaching the word of God. You watched the Women in White bruised, bloodied, and captured on their way from Mass. You have heard the chilling cries of loved ones, or the cracks of firing squads piercing through the ocean breeze. Not a good sound. Among the courageous Cuban dissidents with us onstage here today are Cary Roque, who was imprisoned by the Castro regime 15 years ago. She looks awfully good. Thank you. Wow. That’s pretty good. She didn’t know she was going to do that either, I will tell you. Thank you very much. Antunez, imprisoned for 17 years. Where is he? I love that name. Antunez — I love that name –and Angel De Fana, imprisoned for over 20 years. Thank you. Thank you. Very brave people. The exiles and dissidents here today have witnessed communism destroy a nation, just as communism has destroyed every single nation where it has ever been tried. But we will not be silent in the face of communist oppression any longer. You have seen the truth, you have spoken the truth, and the truth has now called us — this group — called us to action. Thank you. Last year, I promised to be a voice against repression in our region — remember, tremendous oppression — and a voice for the freedom of the Cuban people. You heard that pledge. You exercised the right you have to vote. You went out and you voted. And here I am like I promised — like I promised. I promised you — I keep my promises. Sometimes in politics, they take a little bit longer, but we get there. We get there. Don’t we get there? You better believe it, Mike. We get there. Thank you. Thank you. No, we keep our promise. And now that I am your President, America will expose the crimes of the Castro regime and stand with the Cuban people in their struggle for freedom. Because we know it is best for America to have freedom in our hemisphere, whether in Cuba or Venezuela, and to have a future where the people of each country can live out their own dreams. For nearly six decades, the Cuban people have suffered under communist domination. To this day, Cuba is ruled by the same people who killed tens of thousands of their own citizens, who sought to spread their repressive and failed ideology throughout our hemisphere, and who once tried to host enemy nuclear weapons 90 miles from our shores. The Castro regime has shipped arms to North Korea and fueled chaos in Venezuela. While imprisoning innocents, it has harbored cop killers, hijackers, and terrorists. It has supported human trafficking, forced labor, and exploitation all around the globe. This is the simple truth of the Castro regime. My administration will not hide from it, excuse it, or glamorize it. And we will never, ever be blind to it. We know what’s going on and we remember what happened. On my recent trip overseas, I said the United States is adopting a principled realism, rooted in our values, shared interests, and common sense. I also said countries should take greater responsibility for creating stability in their own regions. It’s hard to think of a policy that makes less sense than the prior administration’s terrible and misguided deal with the Castro regime. Well, you have to say, the Iran deal was pretty bad also. Let’s not forget that beauty. They made a deal with a government that spreads violence and instability in the region and nothing they got — think of it — nothing they got — they fought for everything and we just didn’t fight hard enough. But now those days are over. Now we hold the cards. We now hold the cards. The previous administration’s easing of restrictions on travel and trade does not help the Cuban people — they only enrich the Cuban regime. The profits from investment and tourism flow directly to the military. The regime takes the money and owns the industry. The outcome of the last administration’s executive action has been only more repression and a move to crush the peaceful, democratic movement. Therefore, effective immediately, I am canceling the last administration’s completely one-sided deal with Cuba. I am announcing today a new policy, just as I promised during the campaign, and I will be signing that contract right at that table in just a moment. Our policy will seek a much better deal for the Cuban people and for the United States of America. We do not want U.S. dollars to prop up a military monopoly that exploits and abuses the citizens of Cuba. Our new policy begins with strictly enforcing U.S. law. We will not lift sanctions on the Cuban regime until all political prisoners are freed, freedoms of assembly and expression are respected, all political parties are legalized, and free and internationally supervised elections are scheduled. Elections. We will very strongly restrict American dollars flowing to the military, security and intelligence services that are the core of Castro regime. They will be restricted. We will enforce the ban on tourism. We will enforce the embargo. We will take concrete steps to ensure that investments flow directly to the people, so they can open private businesses and begin to build their country’s great, great future — a country of great potential. My action today bypasses the military and the government, to help the Cuban people themselves form businesses and pursue much better lives. We will keep in place the safeguards to prevent Cubans from risking their lives to unlawful travel to the United States. They are in such danger the way they have to come to this country, and we are going to be safeguarding those people. We have to. We have no choice. We have to. And we will work for the day when a new generation of leaders brings this long reign of suffering to an end. And I do believe that end is in the very near future. We challenge Cuba to come to the table with a new agreement that is in the best interests of both their people and our people and also of Cuban Americans. To the Cuban government, I say: Put an end to the abuse of dissidents. Release the political prisoners. Stop jailing innocent people. Open yourselves to political and economic freedoms. Return the fugitives from American justice — including the return of the cop-killer Joanne Chesimard. And finally, hand over the Cuban military criminals who shot down and killed four brave members of Brothers to the Rescue who were in unarmed, small, slow civilian planes. Those victims included Mario de la Pena, Jr., and Carlos Costa. We are honored to be joined by Mario’s parents, Miriam and Mario, and Carlos’s sister, Mirta. Where are you? Those are great, great parents who love their children so much. What they’ve done is just an incredible, incredible thing — what they represent — they did not die in vain — what they represent to everybody, and especially to the Cuban people. So your children did not die in vain, believe me. So to the Castro regime, I repeat: The harboring of criminals and fugitives will end. You have no choice. It will end. Any changes to the relationship between the United States and Cuba will depend on real progress toward these and the other goals, many of which I’ve described. When Cuba is ready to take concrete steps to these ends, we will be ready, willing, and able to come to the table to negotiate that much better deal for Cubans, for Americans. Much better deal and a deal that’s fair. A deal that’s fair and a deal that makes sense. Our embassy remains open in the hope that our countries can forge a much stronger and better path. America believes that free, independent, and sovereign nations are the best vehicle for human happiness, for health, for education, for safety, for everything. We all accept that all nations have the right to chart their own paths — and I’m certainly a very big believer in that — so we will respect Cuban sovereignty. But we will never turn our backs on the Cuban people. That will not happen. Over the years, a special sympathy has grown between this land of the free, and the beautiful people of that island, so close to our shores and so deeply woven into the history of our region. America has rejected the Cuban people’s oppressors. They are rejected. Officially today, they are rejected. And to those people, America has become a source of strength, and our flag a symbol of hope. I know that is exactly what America is to you and what it represents to you. It represents the same to me. It represents the same to all of us. And that is what it was to a little boy, Luis Haza. You ever hear of Luis? He became very famous, great talent — just eight years old when Fidel Castro seized power. At the time, Luis’s father was the police chief in Santiago de Cuba. You know Santiago? Yeah? Oh, they know Santiago. Just days after Fidel took control, his father was one of 71 Cubans executed by firing squad near San Juan Hill at the hands of the Castro regime. Luis buried his grief in his great love of music. He began playing the violin so brilliantly and so beautifully. Soon the regime saw his incredible gift and wanted to use him for propaganda purposes. When he was 12, they organized a national television special and demanded he play a solo for Raul Castro — who by the way is leaving now. I wonder why. They sent an official to fetch Luis from his home. But Luis refused to go. And a few days later, Castro’s soldiers barged into his orchestra practice area, guns blazing. They told him to play for them. Terrified, Luis began to play. And the entire room was stunned by what they heard. Ringing out from the trembling boy’s violin was a tune they all recognized. This young Cuban boy was playing “The Star Spangled Banner.” Luis played the American National Anthem all the way through, and when he finished, the room was dead silent. When we say that America stands as a symbol to the world — a symbol of freedom, and a symbol of hope — that is what Luis meant, and that is what Luis displayed that day. It was a big day. It was a great day. And that is what we will all remain. That was a very important moment, just like this is now, for Cuba. A very important moment. America will always stand for liberty, and America will always pray and cheer for the freedom of the Cuban people. Now, that little boy, whose story I just told you, the one who played that violin so beautifully so many years ago, is here with us today in our very, very packed and extremely warm auditorium. Of course, he is no longer a little boy, but a world-renowned violinist and conductor — one of the greats. And today he will once again play his violin and fill the hearts of all who love and cherish Cuba, the United States, and freedom. I would like to now invite Luis to the stage. Luis. Thank you, Luis. I just said, so where were you more nervous? Today or then? He said, honestly, I think today. That’s pretty — Thank you, Luis, that was beautiful. So I want to thank Miami. I want to thank Little Havana. Havana, we love. Do we love it? Would you move anywhere else? You wouldn’t move to Palm Beach, would you? No. No way. Little Havana. And I want to thank all of our great friends here today. You’ve been amazing, loyal, beautiful people. And thank you. Don’t remind me. Actually, I was telling Mike, so it was two days — on my birthday — until a big day, which turned out to be tomorrow — the 16th. That was the day I came down with Melania on the escalator at Trump Tower. That’s tomorrow. So it’s exactly tomorrow — two years since we announced. And it worked out okay. Worked out okay. It’s a great honor. Believe me, it’s a great honor. Right? Thank you. Thank you very much. I just want to end by saying may God bless everyone searching for freedom. May God bless Cuba. May God bless the United States of America. And God bless you all. Thank you. Now I’m going to sign. Thank you. So this says, “strengthening the policy of the United States toward Cuba.” And I can add, “strengthening a lot.” So this is very important, and you watch what’s going to happen. Going to be a great day for Cuba. Thank you. Thank you very much. END 2:09 P.M. EDT
Thank you very much, Secretary General Stoltenberg. Chancellor Merkel, thank you very much. Other heads of state and government, I am honored to be here with members of an alliance that has promoted safety and peace across the world. Prime Minister May, all of the nations here today grieve with you and stand with you. I would like to ask that we now observe a moment of silence for the victims and families of the savage attack which took place in Manchester. Thank you. Terrible thing. This ceremony is a day for both remembrance and resolve. We remember and mourn those nearly 3,000 innocent people who were brutally murdered by terrorists on September 11th, 2001. Our NATO allies responded swiftly and decisively, invoking for the first time in its history the Article 5 collective defense commitments. The recent attack on Manchester in the United Kingdom demonstrates the depths of the evil we face with terrorism. Innocent little girls and so many others were horribly murdered and badly injured while attending a concert — beautiful lives with so much great potential torn from their families forever and ever. It was a barbaric and vicious attack upon our civilization. All people who cherish life must unite in finding, exposing, and removing these killers and extremists — and, yes, losers. They are losers. Wherever they exist in our societies, we must drive them out and never, ever let them back in. This call for driving out terrorism is a message I took to a historic gathering of Arab and Muslim leaders across the region, hosted by Saudi Arabia. There, I spent much time with King Salman, a wise man who wants to see things get much better rapidly. The leaders of the Middle East have agreed at this unprecedented meeting to stop funding the radical ideology that leads to this horrible terrorism all over the globe. My travels and meetings have given me renewed hope that nations of many faiths can unite to defeat terrorism, a common threat to all of humanity. Terrorism must be stopped in its tracks, or the horror you saw in Manchester and so many other places will continue forever. You have thousands and thousands of people pouring into our various countries and spreading throughout, and in many cases, we have no idea who they are. We must be tough. We must be strong. And we must be vigilant. The NATO of the future must include a great focus on terrorism and immigration, as well as threats from Russia and on NATO’s eastern and southern borders. These grave security concerns are the same reason that I have been very, very direct with Secretary Stoltenberg and members of the Alliance in saying that NATO members must finally contribute their fair share and meet their financial obligations, for 23 of the 28 member nations are still not paying what they should be paying and what they’re supposed to be paying for their defense. This is not fair to the people and taxpayers of the United States. And many of these nations owe massive amounts of money from past years and not paying in those past years. Over the last eight years, the United States spent more on defense than all other NATO countries combined. If all NATO members had spent just 2 percent of their GDP on defense last year, we would have had another $119 billion for our collective defense and for the financing of additional NATO reserves. We should recognize that with these chronic underpayments and growing threats, even 2 percent of GDP is insufficient to close the gaps in modernizing, readiness, and the size of forces. We have to make up for the many years lost. Two percent is the bare minimum for confronting today’s very real and very vicious threats. If NATO countries made their full and complete contributions, then NATO would be even stronger than it is today, especially from the threat of terrorism. I want to extend my appreciation to the 9/11 Memorial and Museum in New York for contributing this remnant of the North Tower, as well as to Chancellor Merkel and the German people for donating this portion of the Berlin Wall. It is truly fitting that these two artifacts now reside here so close together at the new NATO Headquarters. And I never asked once what the new NATO Headquarters cost. I refuse to do that. But it is beautiful. Each one marks a pivotal event in the history of this Alliance and in the eternal battle between good and evil. On one side, a testament to the triumph of our ideals over a totalitarian Communist ideology bent on the oppression of millions and millions of people; on the other, a painful reminder of the barbaric evil that still exists in the world and that we must confront and defeat together as a group, as a world. This twisted mass of metal reminds us not only of what we have lost, but also what forever endures — the courage of our people, the strength of our resolve, and the commitments that bind us together as one. We will never forget the lives that were lost. We will never forsake the friends who stood by our side. And we will never waiver in our determination to defeat terrorism and to achieve lasting security, prosperity and peace. Thank you very much. It’s a great honor to be here. Thank you. END 4:48 P.M. CEST
Thank you, Prime Minister Netanyahu, Sara Netanyahu, Chairman Avner Shalev, and Rabbi Israel Meir Lau for hosting us for this moving wreath-laying ceremony. We are here at Yad Vashem to honor the memory of six million Jews murdered in the Holocaust. Two-thirds of the Jews in Europe were sent to their deaths. Words can never describe the bottomless depths of that evil, or the scope of the anguish and destruction. It was history’s darkest hour. Millions of innocent, wonderful and beautiful lives — men, women and children — were extinguished as part of a systematic attempt to eliminate the Jewish people. It was the most savage crime against God and his children. And it is our solemn duty to remember, to mourn, to grieve and to honor every single life that was so cruelly and viciously taken. As Elie Wiesel said: “For the dead and the living, we must bear witness.” These words should be carved into the conscience of humanity forever. Only when we remember the families who were torn apart from everyone they loved, who suffered that terrible darkness and evil, who endured the unbearable horror of the Holocaust — only then can we prevent this agony from ever repeating. This place, and this entire nation, are a testament to the unbreakable spirit of the Jewish people — and the hope that light can shine the path beyond the darkness. Through persecution, oppression, death, and destruction, the Jewish people have persevered. They have thrived. They’ve become so successful in so many places. And they have enlightened the world. The State of Israel is a strong and soaring monument to the solemn pledge we repeat and affirm: Never again. From the depths of the suffering, the Jewish people have built a mighty nation — and the Star of David waves proudly above this cherished land. As long as we refuse to be silent in the face of evil, as long as we refuse to dim the light of truth in the midst of darkness, as long as we refuse to become bystanders to barbarity, then we know that goodness, peace and justice will ultimately prevail. With sadness for the lives and dreams that were stolen from this Earth, with determination to always keep the memories of the victims alive, and with resolve to confront evil wherever it threatens, we ask God to give us the strength, wisdom and courage to chart the righteous path. Thank you. God bless the memory of the perished. God bless the survivors. God bless the Jewish people. And God bless the State of Israel. Thank you for having me. Thank you. END 1:34 P.M. IDT
Thank you very much. It’s very nice. And thank you to Prime Minister Netanyahu. And I also want to thank Sara for hosting us last night in really a very unforgettable dinner. We had a great time. We talked about a lot of very, very important things. And thank you to Ambassador David Friedman and Mrs. Friedman for joining us, along with a number of very good friends who have come from our country to yours, as we reaffirm the unshakable bond between the United States of America and Israel. Thank you. I’d like to begin my remarks today by sending the thoughts and prayers of the entire American people to the victims of the terrorist attack in Manchester. You know — you’ve all been watching. You’ve seen just a horrible thing going on. I want to send our condolences to the many families who lost their loved ones. Horrific, horrific injuries. Terrible. Dozens of innocent people, beautiful young children savagely murdered in this heinous attack upon humanity. I repeat again that we must drive out the terrorists and the extremists from our midst, obliterate this evil ideology, and protect and defend our citizens and people of the world. All civilized nations much be united in this effort. This trip is focused on that goal: bringing nations together around the goal of defeating the terrorism that threatens the world, and crushing the hateful ideology that drives it so hard and seems to be driving it so fast. It is a privilege to stand here in this national museum, in the ancient city of Jerusalem, to address the Israeli people and all people in the Middle East who yearn for security, prosperity and peace. Jerusalem is a sacred city. Its beauty, splendor, and heritage are like no other place on Earth. What a heritage. What a heritage. The ties of the Jewish people to this Holy Land are ancient and eternal. They date back thousands of years, including the reign of King David whose star now flies proudly on Israel’s white and blue flag. Yesterday, I visited the Western Wall, and marveled at the monument to God’s presence and man’s perseverance. I was humbled to place my hand upon the wall and to pray in that holy space for wisdom from God. I also visited and prayed at the Church of the Holy Sepulchre, a site revered by Christians throughout the world. I laid a wreath at Yad Vashem, honoring, remembering, and mourning the six million Jews who were murdered in the Holocaust. I pledged right then and there what I pledge again today: the words “never again.” Israel is a testament to the unbreakable spirit of the Jewish people. From all parts of this great country, one message resounds, and that is the message of hope. Down through the ages, the Jewish people have suffered persecution, oppression, and even those who have sought their destruction. But, through it all, they have endured and, in fact, they have thrived. I stand in awe of the accomplishments of the Jewish people, and I make this promise to you: My administration will always stand with Israel. Thank you very much. Through your hardships, you have created one of the most abundant lands anywhere in the world — a land that is rich not only in history, culture, and opportunity, but especially in spirit. This museum where we are gathered today tells the story of that spirit. From the two Holy Temples, to the glorious heights of Masada, we see an incredible story of faith and perseverance. That faith is what inspired Jews to believe in their destiny, to overcome their despair, and to build here — right here — a future that others dared not even to dream. In Israel, not only are Jews free to till the soil, teach their children, and pray to God in the ancient land of their fathers — and they love this land, and they love God — but Muslims, Christians, and people of all faiths are free to live and worship according to their conscience, and to follow their dreams, right here. Today, gathered with friends, I call upon all people — Jews, Christians, Muslims, and every faith, every tribe, every creed — to draw inspiration from this ancient city, to set aside our sectarian differences, to overcome oppression and hatred, and to give all children the freedom and hope and dignity written into our souls. Earlier this week, I spoke at a very historic summit in Saudi Arabia. I was hosted by King Salman — a very wise man. There, I urged our friends in the Muslim world to join us in creating stability, safety and security. And I was deeply encouraged by the desire of many leaders to join us in cooperation toward these shared and vital goals. Conflict cannot continue forever. The only question is when nations will decide that they have had enough — enough bloodshed, enough killing. That historic summit represents a new opportunity for people throughout the Middle East to overcome sectarian and religious divisions, to extinguish the fires of extremism, and to find common ground and shared responsibility in making the future of this region so much better than it is right now. Change must come from within. It can only come from within. No mother or father wants their children to grow up in a world where terrorists roam free, schoolchildren are murdered, and their loved ones are taken. No child is born with prejudice in their heart. No one should teach young boys and girls to hate and to kill. No civilized nation can tolerate the massacre of innocents with chemical weapons. My message to that summit was the same message I have for you: We must build a coalition of partners who share the aim of stamping out extremists and violence, and providing our children a peaceful and hopeful future. But a hopeful future for children in the Middle East requires the world to fully recognize the vital role of the State of Israel. And, on behalf of the United States, we pledge to stand by you and defend our shared values so that together we can defeat terrorism and create safety for all of God’s children. Israelis have experienced firsthand the hatred and terror of radical violence. Israelis are murdered by terrorists wielding knives and bombs. Hamas and Hezbollah launch rockets into Israeli communities where schoolchildren have to be trained to hear the sirens and run to the bomb shelters — with fear, but with speed. ISIS targets Jewish neighborhoods, synagogues, and storefronts. And Iran’s leaders routinely call for Israel’s destruction. Not with Donald J. Trump, believe me. Thank you. I like you too. Despite these challenges, Israel is thriving as a sovereign nation, and no international body should question the contributions Israel makes to the region and, indeed, the world. Today, let us pray for that peace and for a more hopeful future across the Middle East. There are those who present a false choice. They say that we must choose between supporting Israel and supporting Arab and Muslim nations in the region. That is completely wrong. All decent people want to live in peace, and all humanity is threatened by the evils of terrorism. Diverse nations can unite around the goal of protecting innocent life, upholding human dignity, and promoting peace and stability in the region. My administration is committed to pursuing such a coalition, and we have already made substantial progress during this trip. We know, for instance, that both Israelis and Palestinians seek lives of hope for their children. And we know that peace is possible if we put aside the pain and disagreements of the past and commit together to finally resolving this crisis, which has dragged on for nearly half a century or more. As I have repeatedly said, I am personally committed to helping Israelis and Palestinians achieve a peace agreement, and I had a meeting this morning with President Abbas and can tell you that the Palestinians are ready to reach for peace. I know you’ve heard it before. I am telling you — that’s what I do. They are ready to reach for peace. In my meeting with my very good friend, Benjamin, I can tell you also that he is reaching for peace. He wants peace. He loves people. He especially loves the Israeli people. Benjamin Netanyahu wants peace. Making peace, however, will not be easy. We all know that. Both sides will face tough decisions. But with determination, compromise, and the belief that peace is possible, Israelis and Palestinians can make a deal. But even as we work toward peace, we will build strength to defend our nations. The United States is firmly committed to keep Iran from developing a nuclear weapon and halting their support of terrorists and militias. So we are telling you right now that Iran will not have nuclear weapons. America’s security partnership with Israel is stronger than ever. Under my administration, you see the difference — big, big beautiful difference — — including the Iron Dome missile defense program, which has been keeping the Israeli people safe from short-range rockets launched by Hezbollah and Hamas, and David’s Sling, which guards against long range missiles. It is my hope that someday, very soon, Israeli children will never need to rush towards shelters again as sirens ring out loud and clear. Finally, the United States is proud that Israeli Air Force pilots are flying the incredible, new American F-35 planes. There is nothing in the world like them to defend their nation, and it was wonderful to see these mighty aircraft in the skies over Israel recently as you celebrated the 69th anniversary of Israel’s independence. But even as we strengthen our partnership in practice, let us always remember our highest ideals. Let us never forget that the bond between our two nations is woven together in the hearts of our people, and their love of freedom, hope, and dignity for every man and every woman. Let us dream of a future where Jewish, Muslim, and Christian children can grow up together and live together in trust, harmony, tolerance, and respect. The values that are practiced in Israel have inspired millions and millions of people all across the world. The conviction of Theodor Herzl rings true today: “Whatever we attempt there for our own benefit will rebound mightily and beneficially to the good of all mankind.” As we stand in Jerusalem, we see pilgrims of all faiths coming to this land to walk on this hallowed ground. Jews place the prayers from their hearts in the stone blocks of the beautiful Western Wall. Christians pray in the pews of an ancient church. Muslims answer the call to prayer at their holy sites. This city, like no other place in the world, reveals the longing of human hearts to know and to worship God. Jerusalem stands as a reminder that life can flourish against any odds. When we look around this city — so beautiful — and we see people of all faiths engaged in reverent worship, and schoolchildren learning side-by-side, and men and women lifting up the needy and forgotten, we see that God’s promise of healing has brought goodness to so many lives. We see that the people of this land had the courage to overcome the oppression and injustice of the past and to live in the freedom God intends for every person on this Earth. Today, in Jerusalem, we pray and we hope that children around the world will be able to live without fear, to dream without limits, and to prosper without violence. I ask this land of promise to join me to fight our common enemies, to pursue our shared values, and to protect the dignity of every child of God. Thank you. God bless you. God bless the State of Israel. And God bless the United States. Thank you very much. END 2:48 P.M. IDT
First time in the Oval Office for the President and Mrs. Macri. And it’s a great, great honor to have them here. He’s been my friend for many years. We’ve known each other for long, prior to politics. And who would have thought this was going to happen — — for both of us. But he is a great, wonderful person, and he will be a great President of Argentina, I have absolutely no doubt. Absolutely no doubt. Q Mr. Trump, what do you want to achieve with our country, with Argentina? We’re just going to be great friends, better than ever before. And we’re off to a wonderful start, because I’ve known Mauricio for so many years, and I know the kind of person he is. He’s a great person and he’s a great leader. He will do a fantastic job for Argentina. And I feel very comfortable backing him, because they need certain things from the United States. I feel very comfortable backing him because I know what I’m backing. I’m backing a man who loves his people and loves his country. Q If he’s such a good President, Mr. President, are you going to let the lemons — the Argentine lemons in, in your country? They are very good. People will love you if you let them in. I know about all the lemons. And believe it or not, the lemon business is a big, big business. Q Just say yes! But we are going to give that very serious consideration. One of the reasons he’s here is about lemons — — and I’ll tell him about North Korea, and he’ll tell me about lemons. I think that we’re going to be very favorably disposed. We’re going to be talking. Q What do you think about Venezuela, Mr. President? Venezuela is a mess. Venezuela is a mess. Q Mr. President, on renegotiating NAFTA, tell me how you came about the decision — Well, I was going to terminate NAFTA as of two or three days from now. The President of Mexico, who I have a very, very good relationship, called me, and also the Prime Minister of Canada, who I have a very good relationship. And I like both of these gentlemen very much. They called me and they said, rather than terminating NAFTA, could you please renegotiate? I like them very much. I respect their countries very much. The relationship is very special. And I said, I will hold on the termination; let’s see if we can make it a fair deal. Because NAFTA has been a horrible deal for the United States. It’s been very good for Canada, it’s been very good for Mexico, but it’s been horrible for the United States. And if you check my campaign — any of my speeches — I said, I’ll either renegotiate or I’ll terminate. So they asked me to renegotiate — I will. And I think we’ll be successful in the renegotiation, which, frankly, would be good because it would be simpler. But we have to make a deal that’s fair for the United States. They understand that. And so I decided rather than terminating NAFTA, which would be a pretty big shock to the system, we will renegotiate. Now, if I’m unable to make a fair deal, if I’m unable to make a fair deal for the United States, meaning a fair deal for our workers and our companies, I will terminate NAFTA. But we’re going to give renegotiation a good, strong shot. Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you very much. Q What about Venezuela, Mr. President? Mr. President, about Venezuela, what is your position? I’m very sad for Venezuela. I’m very sad to see what’s happened in Venezuela. Venezuela is a very sad situation. END 11:36 A.M. EDT
This is a very, very important and powerful group of people, and it’s really wonderful to have you with us. And I have to say, welcome to the White House. It’s a privilege to have all of the ambassadors and their spouses. You know, they were going to leave out the spouses, and I said, you must bring your spouses. You know, I heard there were a lot of very angry spouses — — and this is their first time to the White House. So it’s a great honor to those of you that brought your wife or spouse. As you know, the United States holds the presidency of the Security Council this month, and I’m glad that we are continuing the tradition of hosting the Council’s ambassadors in our nation’s capital. It’s our great honor, believe me. I want to thank Ambassador Nikki Haley for her outstanding leadership, and for acting as my personal envoy on the Security Council. She’s doing a good job. Now, does everybody like Nikki? Because if you don’t — — otherwise, she can easily be replaced. No, we won’t do that, I promise. We won’t do that. She’s doing a fantastic job. And everyone, I see — even as we took pictures before — the friendship that you’ve developed, all of you together. That’s really a fantastic thing. The mission of the United Nations and the U.N. Security Council is to maintain international peace and security. These are important aims and shared interests. But as we look around the world, it’s clear that there is much work for you to achieve. You’re going to be very busy people, I suspect, over these coming months and years. Our nation faces serious and growing threats, and many of them stem from problems that have been unaddressed for far too long. In fact, the United Nations doesn’t like taking on certain problems. But I have a feeling that people in this room — and I know for a fact that Nikki feels very, very strongly about taking on problems that really people steered away from. I encourage the Security Council to come together and take action to counter all of these many threats. On Syria, the Council failed again this month to respond to Syria’s use of chemical weapons. A great disappointment; I was very disappointed by that. The status quo in North Korea is also unacceptable, and the Council must be prepared to impose additional and stronger sanctions on North Korean nuclear and ballistic missile programs. This is a real threat to the world, whether we want to talk about it or not. North Korea is a big world problem, and it’s a problem we have to finally solve. People have put blindfolds on for decades, and now it’s time to solve the problem. For the United Nations to play an effective role in solving these and other security challenges, big reforms will be required. In addition, we must also take a close look at the U.N. budget. Costs have been — absolutely gone out of control. But I will say this: If we do a great job, I care much less about the budget, because you’re talking about peanuts compared to the important work you’re doing. You really are. You’re talking about the most important things ever. And I must say, I’m a budget person. You see the way I’m talking about NATO, the same thing, but if you do a great job at the United Nations, I feel much differently about it because we’re talking pennies compared to the kind of lives and money that you’ll be saving. The United States, just one of 193 countries in the U.N., pays for 22 percent of the budget and almost 30 percent of the United Nations peacekeeping, which is unfair. We need the member states to come together to eliminate inefficiency and bloat, and to ensure that no one nation shoulders a disproportionate share of the burden militarily or financially. This is only fair to our taxpayers. I look forward to a productive discussion about our shared role in keeping the peace, advancing reforms, and getting everyone to do their fair share. I also want to say to you that I have long felt the United Nations is an underperformer but has tremendous potential. There are those people that think it’s an underperformer and will never perform. I think — and I think especially I’m so happy with the job that Nikki is doing and our representatives — but Nikki and the group — and I see the relationship that she has already developed. I think that the United Nations has tremendous potential — tremendous potential — far greater than what I would say any other candidate in the last 30 years would have even thought to say. I don’t think it’s lived up — I know it hasn’t lived up to the potential. I mean, I see a day when there’s a conflict where the United Nations, you get together, and you solve the conflict. You just don’t see the United Nations, like, solving conflicts. I think that’s going to start happening now. I can see it. And the United Nations will get together and solve conflicts. It won’t be two countries, it will be the United Nations mediating or arbitrating with those countries. So I see fantastic potential and fantastic things ahead for the United Nations. And I have to say, it’s a tremendous honor to know you and to meet you. And Nikki has given me a little briefing on each and every one of you, and I must tell you — I will tell you, you know, I’m a very blunt person, if she didn’t like I would tell you right now — — but she gets along with everybody and respects everybody in this room. I’ll end by saying that — unless you would rather not do it — so we have an office in the White House, you may have heard of it, called the Oval Office. So what we’ll do is we’ll go down as a group and we’ll take some pictures in the Oval Office. I know you’ve never seen it. Nobody seems to get to see the Oval Office very much, but we’re going to show you the Oval Office. So we’ll go down, take some pictures of the Oval Office, and we’ll have a good luncheon, and we’ll talk about the United Nations and we’ll talk about peace. Thank you all very much for being here. It’s a great honor, and I’m glad you brought your spouses. Thank you. END 11:56 A.M. EDT
I just want to say that President Xi and all of his representatives have been really interesting to be with. I think we have made tremendous progress in our relationship with China. My representatives have been meeting one-on-one with their counterparts from China. And I think, truly, progress has been made. We’ll be making a lot of additional progress. The relationship developed by President Xi and myself I think is outstanding. We look forward to being together many times in the future. And I believe lots of very potentially bad problems will be going away. So I just want to thank President Xi for being with us in the United States. It’s a tremendous honor for me and all of my representatives to host the President and his representatives. And again, progress has been made. Thank you very much. Thank you. Well, I agree 100 percent, Mr. President. And thank you very much. And again, a tremendous honor to have you in the United States and in Mar-a-Lago. Thank you very much. END 11:26 A.M. EDT