"Statement by H.E. Xi Jinping
President of the People's Republic of China
At the Climate Ambition Summit
12 December 2020
Your Excellency Secretary-General António Guterres,
Dear Colleagues,
It gives me great pleasure to join you in this Climate Ambition Summit. Five years ago, world leaders showed utmost political resolve and wisdom and adopted the Paris Agreement on climate change. Since then, the implementation of the Paris Agreement has received extensive international support and participation. At present, the international landscape is evolving more rapidly and COVID-19 is triggering deep reflections on the relationship between man and nature. The future of global climate governance is drawing greater attention. In this context, I wish to make three proposals:
First, we need to close ranks and make new advances in climate governance that features cooperation and win-win. In meeting the climate challenge, no one can be aloof and unilateralism will get us nowhere. Only by upholding multilateralism, unity and cooperation can we deliver shared benefits and win-win for all nations. China welcomes all countries' support for the Paris Agreement and their greater contribution to tackling climate change.
Second, we need to raise ambition and foster a new architecture of climate governance where every party does its part. Following the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities, all countries need to maximize actions in light of their respective national circumstances and capabilities. At the same time, developed countries need to scale up support for developing countries in financing, technology and capacity building.
Third, we need to boost confidence and pursue a new approach to climate governance that highlights green recovery. Mountains and rivers green are mountains of silver and gold. It is important to encourage green, low-carbon ways of life and production, and seek development opportunities and impetus from green development.
China has made important contributions to adopting the Paris Agreement and has made active efforts toward implementing it. I announced in September that China would scale up its nationally determined contributions and adopt more vigorous policies and measures. We aim to peak carbon dioxide emissions before 2030 and achieve carbon neutrality before 2060.
Today, I wish to announce some further commitments for 2030: China will lower its carbon dioxide emissions per unit of GDP by over 65 percent from the 2005 level, increase the share of non-fossil fuels in primary energy consumption to around 25 percent, increase the forest stock volume by 6 billion cubic meters from the 2005 level, and bring its total installed capacity of wind and solar power to over 1.2 billion kilowatts.
China always honors its commitments. Guided by our new development philosophy, we will promote greener economic and social development in all respects while pursuing high-quality development. We will take solid steps to implement the targets just announced, and contribute even more to tackling the global climate challenge.
Colleagues,
As a Chinese poem reads, "Heaven does not speak and it alternates the four seasons; Earth does not speak and it nurtures all things." Earth is our only and shared home. Let us build on past achievements, work together to make steady progress in implementing the Paris Agreement, and launch a new journey for global climate actions.
Thank you."
"Beijing, 11 December 2020
Experts and Friends,
Good morning! It gives me great pleasure to join you again at the turn of the year to take stock of the international developments and China's foreign relations. Let me first take this opportunity to thank you for your support to China's diplomatic work. As always, I look forward to your insights and suggestions.
The year 2020 is a watershed in human history.
The sudden onslaught of COVID-19 has triggered a global crisis, putting a halt to cross-border travels and shifting global growth into reverse gear. Anachronistic practices of unilateralism and protectionism have been on the increase, driven by resurgent power politics and Cold-War mentality. Human development is confronted with unprecedented risks and challenges in an increasingly fluid and changing world.
At the same time, the evolution of the international order is speeding up. A new round of scientific and technological revolution and industrial transformation is gathering momentum. Humankind as a whole has gained a more profound appreciation of the need for health and safety, peace and development, win-win cooperation and for embracing a shared future. The world will never go back to where it was; humanity is pondering on and exploring the future. All countries must make the consequential choice between solidarity and division, between openness and isolation, and between cooperation and confrontation.
The year 2020 is a milestone in China's national development.
Facing the devastating impact of COVID-19 and an increasingly complex international environment, under the strong leadership of the CPC Central Committee with Comrade Xi Jinping at its core, the entire nation has rallied together behind a common purpose. China was among the first to contain the virus, to carry out international cooperation against COVID-19, to reopen the economy safely, and to restore economic growth.
The country is on course to fulfill the historic mission of ending extreme poverty within the set time frame, secure decisive achievements in finishing the building of a moderately prosperous society, and realize the first centenary goal.
The successful Fifth Plenary Session of the 19th CPC Central Committee set out a great vision for China's development in the coming five years and beyond. It marked the beginning of a new journey toward fully building a modern socialist country, provided strong impetus to overcome challenges on the way forward, and charted the course toward the rejuvenation of the Chinese nation.
The year 2020 is a groundbreaking one for China's external relations.
With a global vision and strong sense of responsibility as leader of a major country, President Xi Jinping has engaged in intensive head of state diplomacy. He held 84 meetings and phone calls with foreign leaders and heads of international organizations, and attended 22 important diplomatic events, including "cloud diplomacy" through the innovative virtual platform. This has helped build global consensus on COVID-19 and point the way forward for China's foreign policy.
Guided by the President's diplomatic engagements and focusing on joint response to COVID-19, we in the diplomatic service have forged ahead to meet the challenges head on. We have taken proactive steps to stay ahead of the changing circumstances, in an effort to serve the country and contribute to the world. We have fought the novel coronavirus and the "political virus" at the same time and made new contributions to safeguarding national interests and global stability. Our efforts and achievements are reflected in the following eight areas:
First, we have carried out robust international cooperation against COVID-19.
Over the past year, we in the diplomatic service have actively contributed to the fight against COVID-19 both in China and globally, promoting the building of a community with a shared future for mankind with concrete actions as a major, responsible country.
Domestically, we have fully engaged in COVID-19 containment. In the early days of the epidemic, we helped secure lifesaving medical supplies globally to address the pressing need back home.
With infections rising globally, we worked with fellow Chinese home and abroad to build a strong line of defense at our borders and preserve the hard-won gains in containing COVID-19 at home.
As the economy gradually reopened, we took innovative approaches to establish "fast tracks" and "green lanes" for the flows of people and goods, which has helped to keep industrial and supply chains stable and open and bolster domestic economic recovery and social development.
Internationally, we have actively promoted anti-COVID-19 cooperation. Since the very beginning, China has worked with the World Health Organization (WHO) and the international community in an open, transparent, science-based and responsible manner. Being the first to report cases to the world, China has since then publicized key information including the genome sequencing at the first opportunity, firmly supported the leading role of WHO, and provided funding to WHO and the UN COVID-19 Global Humanitarian Response Plan.
We have organized over 100 expert video meetings to share experience with other countries without reservation. Through opening an online Knowledge Center for China's Experiences in Response to COVID-19 which is accessible to all countries, we have published eight versions of diagnosis and therapeutic solutions and seven versions of prevention and control protocols.
We have launched the largest global humanitarian campaign since the founding of New China. We have provided assistance to over 150 countries and nine international organizations and sent 36 medical teams to 34 countries in need.
Leveraging our strength as the largest manufacturer of medical supplies, we have provided countries around the world with over 200 billion masks, 2 billion protective suits and 800 million testing kits.
We have also actively advanced collaboration on the R&D of drugs and vaccines, promoted joint prevention and control with other countries and called for the enhancement of global public health governance, with a view to jointly building a global community of health for all.
Second, we have further expanded opening-up and mutually beneficial cooperation.
Over the past year, the global economy has faced the deepest recession since World War II precipitated by the pandemic. As the world's second largest economy, China has deepened reform and opening-up across the board and actively pursued mutually beneficial cooperation to provide impetus and confidence for the global recovery.
China has accelerated reform and opening-up endeavors across the board. The Foreign Investment Law and its implementation regulations came into effect. The items on the national negative list for foreign investment have been further cut to 33, and down to 30 for the pilot free trade zones. A master plan has been drawn up for the development of the Hainan Free Trade Port. Measures for further reform and opening-up in Shenzhen and Pudong have been rolled out. And more pilot programs have been conducted for creative promotion of trade in services. With these steps, China has opened its door even wider to the world.
We have set out to foster a new development paradigm with domestic circulation as the mainstay and domestic and international circulations reinforcing each other. Our purpose is to vigorously expand domestic demand and form deeper and broader connections between domestic and international circulations. This will provide greater market opportunities for the world and broader space for international cooperation. This will also open up new dimensions in China's win-win strategy of opening-up and speed up the process toward a new, higher-standard open economy in China.
Despite the challenges, China's mutually beneficial cooperation with other countries has continued to move forward. In the first three quarters this year, China's economy resumed positive growth, with an uptick in total trade in goods and notable increase in paid-in foreign investment. China is expected to become the first major economy to register positive growth this year. This is a hard-won achievement that will provide an important underpinning for global recovery.
The Belt and Road cooperation has shown strong resilience and vitality under COVID-19. In the first eight months this year, China's trade with Belt and Road partners reached RMB5.86 trillion yuan, and Chinese companies made 30 percent more non-financial direct investment in Belt and Road partner countries year-on-year. As of early November, the China-Europe Railway Express had completed more than 10,000 services and transported at least 50 percent more freight than last year. The Express has been compared to a steel camel fleet that vigorously supported joint COVID responses by countries along its routes. The High-level Video Conference on Belt and Road International Cooperation yielded productive outcomes. Participants agreed to work toward a Health Silk Road, adding another building block toward high-quality Belt and Road cooperation. We have successfully held the third China International Import Expo attended by over 3,600 companies from more than 150 countries and regions. By holding the Expo, China has shared with the world the benefits and opportunities generated by its economic recovery and opening-up, and shown itself to be a market for the world, shared by all and accessible to all.
Third, we have provided strong support for global stability.
Over the past year, China has made active efforts to develop its relations with other major countries and foster a framework of major-country relations featuring overall stability and well-balanced development.
President Xi Jinping has had four phone calls with Russian President Vladimir Putin this year, providing guidance for the continued growth of China-Russia comprehensive strategic partnership of coordination for a new era. The two countries provided each other with anti-epidemic supplies and medical assistance, and jointly promoted international cooperation against COVID-19. Practical cooperation between the two sides has continued to deepen. Steady progress was made in several major projects. The Year of Scientific and Technological Innovation was officially launched. The two sides have worked in concert to defend the victorious outcomes of World War II and uphold international fairness and justice and firmly supported each other against foreign interference and stigmatization, acting as important players in safeguarding global strategic stability.
This year marks the 45th anniversary of the diplomatic ties between China and the EU. Chinese and EU leaders have agreed to strengthen coordination and cooperation, deepen strategic mutual trust, firmly uphold multilateralism, and jointly meet global challenges. In the first three quarters, China became EU's largest trading partner for the first time. The two sides signed the agreement on geographical indications, a demonstration of their shared commitment to intellectual property protection. The two sides decided to establish two new high-level dialogue mechanisms, one on environment and climate and the other on digital cooperation, and build partnerships for green and digital cooperation. Closer partnership between the two sides in these areas will add new dimensions to the China-EU comprehensive strategic partnership. Negotiations toward a China-EU investment treaty has entered the final phase, with both sides working to conclude the negotiations by the end of this year.
This year has witnessed the most challenging situation facing China-US relations since the establishment of diplomatic ties over four decades ago. As the world needed solidarity and cooperation the most, the United States headed down the path of unilateralism, which has become the most disruptive factor in the international system. Out of their self-interests and political bias, some people in the United States have sought to smear and suppress China, impose unjustified sanctions, and even stoke ideological confrontation in an attempt to plunge the world into a new Cold War.
These unpopular moves should stop now. Otherwise, they will damage US credibility, jeopardize world peace and stability, and will ultimately be rejected by people of the world and by history. The China-US relationship is showing a complexity that goes far beyond the bilateral scope; it has in fact become a matter of going for multilateralism or unilateralism, progress or retrogression, and justice or hegemony. What China defends is not only its own legitimate rights and interests, but also the common and long-term interests of all countries. What China safeguards is not only the political foundation underpinning China-US interactions, but also the basic norms governing international relations applicable to all countries. What China advocates is not only its own legitimate propositions, but also fairness and justice of the world.
Fourth, we have made solid progress in building a community with a shared future with neighbors.
Over the past year, following the neighborhood diplomacy guideline that advocates amity, sincerity, mutual benefit and inclusiveness, China has proactively conducted cooperation with neighboring countries in COVID response and many other areas. Such cooperation has contributed to broader converging interests and closer people-to-people ties, making solid strides in building a community with a shared future.
After the new Japanese government was formed, President Xi Jinping and Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga reached a new, important common understanding on steadily improving and growing China-Japan relations. The two countries will support each other in hosting the Tokyo Olympic Games and the Beijing Olympic Winter Games, and earnestly build a China-Japan relationship that meets the call of the new era.
China values peaceful coexistence and mutually beneficial cooperation with its important neighbor India. The two countries have kept strategic communication. China has resolutely and appropriately handled the boundary disputes, in an effort to steer China-India relations in the right direction.
China and the ROK have worked effectively together in various areas, including COVID response and economic reopening, taking the strategic cooperative partnership to a new height.
President Xi Jinping paid a visit to Myanmar on the occasion of the 70th anniversary of China-Myanmar diplomatic relations. The two sides reached important consensus on building a China-Myanmar community with a shared future, heralding a new chapter in the millennial "pauk-phaw" ties.
China has facilitated substantial progress in Asia-Pacific cooperation. At the APEC Economic Leaders' Meeting, President Xi Jinping called for joint efforts to build an Asia-Pacific community with a shared future, charting the direction for cooperation in the region. Premier Li Keqiang attended the leaders' meetings for East Asian cooperation, and witnessed the signing of the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP), which launched the process of setting up the world's most promising FTA covering the largest population and biggest economic aggregate. China also announced that it will favorably consider joining the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP), giving a strong boost to the confidence of countries concerned in building the Free Trade Area of the Asia-Pacific.
China and ASEAN have made the historic breakthrough of becoming each other's largest trading partners. The two sides have proposed the establishment of the China-ASEAN Liaison Mechanism for Public Health Emergencies and a medical supplies reserve endeavoring to make China-ASEAN relations a fine example of the most successful and dynamic regional cooperation.
China, Japan and the ROK have strengthened cooperation in revitalizing regional economic activities and steadily advanced the trilateral free trade negotiations, elevating regional economic cooperation to a higher level.
The Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) has deepened cooperation in containing COVID-19, safeguarding regional security and promoting economic growth. China and the five Central Asian countries have launched the "Central Asia Plus China" (C5+1) foreign ministers' meetings as a new framework for strengthening China-Central Asia relations.
China has been actively exploring approaches with Chinese features to resolving hotspot issues. While firmly upholding the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), an important accomplishment of multilateral diplomacy, we have joined the international community in opposing US moves inconsistent with Security Council resolutions on the Iranian nuclear issue. China has put forward a constructive proposal of building a new platform for multilateral dialogue for the Gulf region.
China has continued to advocate the phased and synchronized approach to achieve the two goals of denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula and establishment of a peace mechanism, with the ultimate aim of realizing enduring peace and security in the peninsula.
China has facilitated consensus-building on Afghanistan's national reconciliation and among regional players on the Afghan issue, and supported advancing the intra-Afghan talks.
China has mediated between Bangladesh and Myanmar in addressing their disagreements, and assisted in maintaining overall stability in northern Myanmar.
Fifth, we have protected and expanded the shared interests of the developing world.
Over the past year, pursuing the greater good above its own interests, China has worked closely with other developing countries in fighting the virus, bolstering economic recovery and embracing a shared future. Such solidarity and cooperation have stood the test of the trying time and demonstrated new vitality.
President Xi Jinping and African leaders held a successful Extraordinary China-Africa Summit on Solidarity Against COVID-19, carrying forward and enhancing the fine tradition of mutual assistance. The two sides have accelerated the implementation of the eight major initiatives announced at the FOCAC Beijing Summit, prioritizing programs in the health sector.
The ninth Ministerial Conference of the China-Arab States Cooperation Forum was convened, during which all sides agreed to build a community with a shared future for China and Arab states, opening up even brighter prospects of Sino-Arab relations.
China and Latin American and Caribbean (LAC) countries held a Special Video Conference of Foreign Ministers on COVID-19, and a China-LAC Special Loan for Combating COVID-19 was launched. Such joint efforts have demonstrated the solidarity and friendship between China and LAC countries.
China has sent medical expert teams to developing countries in need to help them beat the virus and tide over the difficulties. China has pledged to make vaccines a global public good once they are developed and deployed, as a contribution to vaccine accessibility and affordability in developing countries.
China has taken an active part in formulating the G20 Debt Service Suspension Initiative (DSSI) and implemented all debt service suspension requests that are DSSI eligible, ranking the first among G20 members in terms of deferral amount.
China has promoted earnest implementation of the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development by the international community, and co-hosted with the United Nations the High-level Video Conference on Poverty Eradication and South-South Cooperation. We have deepened international cooperation in such areas as agriculture, education, women and children, and climate change. These efforts fully attest to our conviction in supporting the solidarity and progress of developing countries and upholding the shared interests of the developing world.
Sixth, we have actively participated in the reform of global governance system.
The past year has witnessed headwinds and setbacks in global governance. Against such a background, President Xi expounded China's perspectives on global governance in a comprehensive and systematic way while attending major multilateral meetings and put forward China's proposals on actively tackling global challenges.
Together with the rest of the international community, we firmly upheld the international order underpinned by international law, the international system with the UN as the core, and the multilateral trading regime with the World Trade Organization (WTO) as the cornerstone. Following the trend of history, we continued to support UN's due role in regional and international affairs, stand for greater democracy in international relations, and advocate making economic globalization more open, inclusive, balanced and beneficial for all. China engaged in the international cooperation on climate change in a responsible manner. We announced that we will strive to peak CO2 emissions before 2030 and achieve carbon neutrality before 2060, demonstrating our readiness to contribute to global ecological preservation.
We have also actively participated in the international rule-making in emerging areas. By releasing the Global Initiative on Data Security, we aim to address international concerns over cybersecurity. We will join other countries to foster an international cyberspace featuring peace, security, openness and cooperation.
Seventh, we have firmly safeguarded our national interests and dignity.
Over the past year, by staying committed to an independent foreign policy of peace, we have firmly safeguarded the path and system chosen by the Chinese people and upheld our country's sovereignty, security and development interests.
We have taken a clear-cut position against any politicization or stigmatization of COVID-19 and held back the global spread of the "political virus". We have pushed back against slanders and smears against China's system and path and resolutely defended the security of political authority and system of the Party and the country. We have forcefully defeated the attempts to interfere in China's internal affairs by external forces through issues related to Taiwan, Hong Kong, Xinjiang and Tibet, and upheld sovereign independence and territorial integrity of our country. With justice on our side, we have denounced various types of disinformation and laid bare the attempts of scapegoating and blame-shifting in a bid to present and put on record an objective and truthful historical narrative. We have taken firm countermeasures against unilateral sanctions and the so-called long-arm jurisdiction in the name of national security and safeguarded our national dignity and the legitimate rights and interests of our companies and citizens.
Eighth, we have wholeheartedly served our people through diplomatic work.
Over the past year, we have stayed committed to the people-centered principle in our work and showed every concern for the safety and well-being of every fellow countryman and woman abroad affected by the epidemic. We swiftly mobilized and carried out consular protection across the world in a bid to convey the care and solicitude of the CPC Central Committee and the State Council to all the Chinese nationals living, working or studying overseas.
We urged the governments of host countries to attach importance to addressing the difficulties encountered by overseas Chinese citizens, offered prompt support to the treatment of those infected, and set up online telemedicine platforms for that purpose. Our diplomats abroad said this to their fellow countrymen, "The embassy will always be here with you. We will get through this together".
By overcoming all kinds of difficulties, we managed to deliver more than 1.2 million health kits to overseas Chinese students, sent emergency medical supplies to overseas Chinese in 100-plus countries, and arranged over 350 special flights to bring home stranded Chinese nationals. In November, when military conflicts broke out in Ethiopia, we successfully evacuated to safe areas all the 630 Chinese nationals there within 17 days. Since the beginning of 2020, our consular protection hotline 12308 has operated 24/7. It has handled three times the calls compared with the same period last year, with more than 10 calls per minute in peak times. The bond of love linking overseas Chinese with their motherland has now extended to every corner of the world.
Experts and Friends,
The year 2021 will mark the 100th anniversary of the Communist Party of China and the launch of our 14th Five-Year Plan. China will embark on a new journey toward fully building a modern socialist country and realizing its second centenary goal.
As the CPC reaches a centennial milestone full of youthful vigor, we in the foreign service have important missions on our shoulders.
No matter how the international situation evolves, China's diplomacy will continue to advance under the strong leadership of the CPC Central Committee with Comrade Xi Jinping at its core. We will stay true to our original aspirations to bring happiness to the Chinese people and contribute to human progress. We will hold high the banner of peace, development and win-win cooperation, stick to the path of peaceful development, and pursue friendship and cooperation with other countries in all sincerity. Guided by Xi Jinping Thought on Diplomacy, we will resolutely forge ahead to explore new opportunities and break new grounds amid crises and changes, pursue all-round progress in major-country diplomacy with Chinese characteristics in the new era, foster a new type of international relations, and build a community with a shared future for mankind.
First, we will make our best efforts to serve China's development strategies.
China remains a developing country. Our primary task is to accelerate development and rejuvenation, and our ultimate goal is to deliver a better life to our people. We will foster a keen awareness of the features of China's new development stage, promote the new development philosophy, and create a favorable external environment for fostering a new development paradigm and implementing the 14th Five-Year Plan. We will actively support the work for both normalized epidemic control and economic and social development. Efforts will be made to open more "fast tracks" for travel and "green lanes" for shipments of cargo, establish joint pandemic response mechanisms with more countries, and expedite cooperation on economic reopening. We will enhance coordination between the foreign service and other departments handling foreign affairs, support Chinese provinces in leveraging their respective resources and strengths, and actively serve China's overall foreign policy interests. We will host a new round of events to present Chinese provinces and economically important regions that have emerged stronger from the test of COVID-19, and help build bridges with the world for the opening and development of our country and its different localities.
Second, we will strive to facilitate global economic recovery.
China will continue to open its door wider to the world, fully tap into the strength of its enormous market and the potential of domestic demand, and make significant contributions to global recovery with its own economic development. We will oppose and resist all forms of protectionism, promote stable and smooth operation of global industrial and supply chains, and work with all countries to build an open world economy. We will vigorously advance high quality Belt and Road cooperation, accelerate the development of the Health Silk Road, the digital Silk Road and a green Silk Road, and bring benefits to more countries and peoples.
Third, we will advocate a new type of international relations.
We will deepen China-Russia comprehensive strategic coordination, enhance bilateral strategic coordination in all areas and at all levels, and jointly build pillars for world peace and security as well as global strategic stability. We will enhance strategic trust between China and Europe, build consensus on safeguarding multilateralism, upholding free trade and tackling climate change, and expand practical cooperation on digital economy, green development and other emerging sectors.
China-US relations have come to a new historical juncture. Bearing in mind the fundamental interests of both peoples and the common good of the whole world, the two sides need to review the experience of mutually beneficial cooperation between the two countries since the establishment of diplomatic ties, reflect on the lessons from setbacks in bilateral relations in recent years, and rebuild a strategic framework for the sound and stable growth of the bilateral relations. The two countries need to make concerted efforts to achieve this goal.
First, we need to reopen dialogue.
Dialogue and communication are effective ways to get the right perception of each other's strategic intentions as well as domestic and foreign policies. China stands ready to open up dialogues on an equal footing with the United States at all levels and in all areas to promote sincere, in-depth and constructive exchanges. The two countries need to seek common ground while reserving differences, and prudently manage their differences.
Second, we need to restart cooperation.
Mutually beneficial cooperation is the anchor and booster of China-US relations. It is high time for the two sides to coordinate and cooperate on COVID-19 response to defeat the virus. At the same time, both countries are duty-bound to step up communication on global economy, climate change, counter-terrorism, cyberspace and other major issues, and provide more public goods for global peace, stability and economic recovery.
Third, we need to rebuild trust.
Mutual trust is the prerequisite for the healthy and stable growth of bilateral ties, and trust could only be based on objective and rational perceptions. The US side should put China in the right strategic perspective rather than viewing it as a threat, and see China's development in a positive and constructive way. China always believes that as long as both countries adopt an objective and rational attitude, and seek greater mutual understanding and broader convergence of interests, we will surely be able to find a path of peaceful coexistence in this world between countries of different social systems and cultural backgrounds.
Fourth, we will further deepen international and regional cooperation.
As we mark the 20th anniversary of the SCO, we will carry forward the Shanghai Spirit, and consolidate and strengthen the positive momentum of stability and cooperation in the region. We will work for the early entry into force of the RCEP agreement, promote mutually beneficial China-Japan-ROK cooperation, and advance the building of the Lancang-Mekong Cooperation Economic Development Belt. We will take an active part in COVAX, deliver our commitment of sharing Chinese COVID-19 vaccines, once available, as a global public good, and work to build a global community of health for all. We will contribute our share to the poverty alleviation, debt reduction and disaster mitigation of developing countries, and actively support fellow developing countries in capacity building for self-generated development.
Fifth, we will proactively engage in the reform of global governance.
Next year marks the 50th anniversary of the restoration of China's lawful seat at the UN and the 20th anniversary of its accession to the WTO. We will continue to uphold multilateralism, follow the principles of openness and inclusiveness, carry out mutually beneficial cooperation, and move forward with the times. We support bringing into full play the UN's central position and role in international affairs, and enhancing the effectiveness and authority of the WTO. We will actively participate in the reform of the global governance system, and work with all parties in formulating rules on global digital governance and making the global governance system more equitable, reasonable, inclusive and beneficial for all.
Sixth, we will promote mutual understanding between countries.
China will enhance friendly interactions with the rest of the world. We call on all countries to overcome differences, seek common development, and facilitate the exchange, mutual learning and harmony among civilizations. As we celebrate the historic 100th birthday of the CPC, we will better communicate to the world the CPC's track record of governance, the Chinese people's extraordinary journey toward the Chinese dream and China's commitment to peaceful development. Through better communications, we hope the world will get a more objective view of the CPC and a more accurate understanding of socialism with Chinese characteristics. China will continue to enhance mutual understanding with the rest of the world, and increase mutual trust between the Chinese and the peoples around the world.
Seventh, we will make continued efforts to build a community with a shared future for mankind.
President Xi Jinping has elaborated on the building of a community with a shared future for mankind on many occasions and further laid out the profound connotations of this vision. Actions to promote this community have been well underway. At the national level, China is forging bilateral communities with a shared future with more and more partners. At the regional level, China has reached agreement with the relevant parties on building communities with a shared future in its neighborhood and the Asia-Pacific, and with ASEAN, Africa, Arab states, and Latin American and Caribbean countries. At the global level, China's proposals for building communities with a shared future in the fields of cyberspace, nuclear security, ocean and health have been warmly received. The inception and promotion of the vision of a community with a shared future for mankind reflects the development trend of the times and the shared aspiration of people across the world, and is winning ever broader understanding and support. We call on all countries to rise above differences of ideology, social systems and development stages, jointly protect the planet Earth, our only homeland, uphold the values of peace, development, equity, justice, democracy and freedom shared by all of us, and work together for an open, inclusive, clean and beautiful world of lasting peace, universal security and common prosperity.
Experts and Friends,
Winter can never block the coming of spring, just as night can never prevent the break of dawn. Whatever adversaries may come in humanity's way, the wheels of history will always move forward, and nothing can stop the overwhelming trend of the times. China will, as always, stand on the right side of history and on the side of justice in international relations, and work with all countries to make the world a better place. In pursing its foreign relations, China will continue to shoulder its responsibilities for the country and for the world, and make new and bigger contributions to the rejuvenation of the Chinese nation and the building of a community with a shared future for mankind.
Thank you!"
"Beijing, 30 November 2020
Colleagues,
I am pleased to join you online for the 19th Meeting of the Council of Heads of Government of Member States of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO). I wish to thank our host for the preparations it has made for this meeting.
Since the onset of COVID-19, SCO members, committed to the Shanghai Spirit, have joined hands to fight against the virus and upheld regional development and stability. President Xi Jinping attended, not long ago, the SCO Heads of State Meeting. We hope that all parties will work together to earnestly deliver the outcomes of the Meeting, steadily advance the SCO's cooperation agenda and vigorously open up new vistas for its development in the post-COVID era.
The world economy is now confronted with the most severe recession since the end of World War II, with drastic contractions of international trade and investment and disruptions in the industrial and supply chains. In the meantime, the growing backlash against economic globalization and mounting protectionism and unilateralism have dealt a blow to the global governance system and multilateral institutions, posing daunting challenges to economic and social development of the region and beyond.
With a crisis comes both challenges and opportunities. Over the past 19 years since its inception, the SCO has risen to challenges, worked to turn crises into opportunities and maintained a sound and steady momentum of growth no matter how the world around us changes. With strong confidence and concerted efforts, we will be able to overcome the impacts of COVID-19, deepen cooperation in wide-ranging fields and achieve greater progress in SCO development. To this end, I wish to propose the following:
First, we need to actively foster a secure and stable environment for development.
With uncertainties and destabilizing factors growing in the region, we need to work together to uphold regional peace and stability.
Joint counter-terrorism exercises must continue to be held in order to forestall sabotages by terrorist, separatist and extremist forces exploiting the pandemic. Institution building must be strengthened, and cooperation on deradicalization carried out to effectively address new threats and challenges such as cyber-terrorism and biosafety, and expand the breadth and depth of SCO cooperation on law enforcement and security. We need to guard against data security risks by implementing the Global Initiative on Data Security and work together to enhance data security governance capabilities. We will also cooperate with Afghanistan by making full use of the SCO-Afghanistan Contact Group to support Afghanistan's national reconciliation process and help it restore stability and development at an early date.
Second, we need to earnestly cement the foundation for integrated development.
Promoting integrated and interconnected development in keeping with the general trend of the world economy is a sure path to economic recovery of regional countries. Following the direction set by the renewed Program of
Multilateral Trade and Economic Cooperation
, we need to leverage our complementarity and further substantiate areas of cooperation so as to set the economy on a recovery course.
Two weeks ago, China and other 14 countries signed the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) agreement to establish the world's most promising free trade area with the largest population and the most diverse membership. The RCEP will not only add new impetus to regional development and prosperity, but also serve as an important engine driving global growth. Within the framework of the SCO, we also need to improve liberalization and facilitation of regional trade and investment, and set about putting together institutional arrangements for SCO regional economic cooperation. We will further synergize Belt and Road cooperation with other member states' development strategies and regional cooperation initiatives. The Agreement on International Road Transportation Facilitation must be earnestly implemented, and the formulation of an SCO program for road development accelerated, to promote high-quality connectivity in the region.
While meeting pandemic control requirements, we need to build a regional network of "fast tracks" and "green lanes" to facilitate the flow of people and goods and contribute to economic reopening in our countries. We need to continue to explore viable approaches to the setting-up of an SCO development bank to energize financial cooperation under the SCO. Cooperation models for modern agriculture will be explored, and farm produce trade expanded to ensure food security in regional countries. China hopes to step up cooperation with other parties in trade in services and share the benefits of its growth. China will publish an index of its trade with other SCO members. We will accelerate the development of the China-SCO Local Economic and Trade Cooperation Demonstration Zone and the SCO demonstration base for exchanges and training on agricultural technologies. All these joint efforts will enable SCO practical cooperation to grow in greater depth.
Third, we need to vigorously leverage the catalytic role of scientific and technological innovation.
The new round of technological revolution and industrial transformation is gathering momentum, promising broad prospects for the world economy. In this process, innovation is vital if we are to stay ahead of the development curve and lend strong impetus to the economic revitalization in our countries.
We need to improve the SCO cooperation mechanisms on innovation and explore growth areas such as smart city, artificial intelligence and big data. The boom in Internet economy hastened by COVID response should be well harnessed to promote the integrated development of the digital economy and the real economy and foster new industries and new business forms.
We need to earnestly implement our cooperation document on intellectual property, protect and incentivize innovation and fully bring out the innovation potential. Concrete efforts are needed to remove barriers against the flow of innovation factors and foster an open, cooperative and non-discriminatory business environment for companies of all countries.
China is making preparations for an SCO technological transfer center and will host the second SCO Member States Youth Innovation and Entrepreneurship Competition. We will work with other parties to ensure the success of the SCO Environment Information Sharing Platform and jointly promote high-quality economic development and green recovery.
Fourth, we need to actively pursue people-centered cooperation.
Sustaining and improving people's well-being is a priority for regional countries. Tackling the acute deficiencies and weaknesses in livelihood areas, we need to proactively carry out cooperation in such fields as medical care and health, poverty relief, education and culture so that our people get benefits from the SCO cooperation.
As we speak, COVID-19 is still ravaging the world. It is thus imperative that we expedite cooperation on the research and development of vaccines and drugs. COVID-19 vaccines, when developed and deployed in China, will be made a global public good. This will be China's contribution to ensuring vaccine accessibility and affordability.
This year, China is set to win the battle against extreme poverty. Despite the impact of COVID-19, we will lift out of poverty all the rural residents living below the current poverty line as scheduled, blazing a path of poverty eradication that suits China's national conditions. We stand ready to carry out poverty reduction training with other SCO countries and contribute our share to livelihood improvement in the region. China suggests intensifying efforts in developing the SCO University, bringing more universities and disciplines into this network and cultivating more future-oriented professionals. China proposes establishing an SCO international museum alliance and signing a memorandum on the mutual translation of literary classics, with a view to promoting mutual learning among civilizations and bringing our peoples closer.
Colleagues,
Peace and development remain the theme of our times. Openness and cooperation still represent the overwhelming trend. We need to uphold multilateralism and free trade and facilitate the improvement of the global economic governance system. We need to stay committed to fostering an open world economy and safeguard the smooth operation of global industrial and supply chains. Following a global governance philosophy emphasizing extensive consultation, joint contribution and shared benefits, we need to take an active part in WTO reform, promote equality of rights, opportunities and rules for all countries, and defend the legitimate rights and interests of emerging markets and developing countries. China supports the SCO in deepening cooperation with the United Nations and other multilateral frameworks and making joint efforts to safeguard the authority and effectiveness of the multilateral system and build a new type of international relations and a community with a shared future for mankind.
China is committed to a win-win strategy of opening-up and to sharing opportunities with the rest of the world as it pursues development. Let us work together with a common purpose and forge ahead to create an even brighter future for the SCO.
Thank you."
"Beijing, 27 November 2020
Your Excellencies Leaders of Participating Countries,
Distinguished Guests,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Dear Friends,
As the 17th China-ASEAN Expo (CAEXPO) and China-ASEAN Business and Investment Summit (CABIS) open today, I wish to extend, on behalf of the Chinese government and people and also in my own name, a hearty welcome and warm greetings to all the guests attending in person or via the Internet.
This year's CAEXPO, themed "Building the Belt and Road, Strengthening Digital Economy Cooperation", aims to deepen China-ASEAN cooperation on the digital economy, promote high-quality Belt and Road cooperation, and inject new vitality into the economic and social development of both sides.
China and ASEAN countries, connected by the same mountains and rivers, share close affinity and a longstanding friendship. In 2013, I announced an initiative for China to work with ASEAN countries for a 21st Century Maritime Silk Road and for a closer China-ASEAN community with a shared future.
We are glad to note that, seven years on, China and ASEAN enjoy growing connectivity, deepening economic integration, robust business ties, and closer people-to-people exchanges. The China-ASEAN relationship has grown into the most successful and vibrant model for cooperation in the Asia-Pacific and an exemplary effort in building a community with a shared future for mankind.
When confronted by the sudden onslaught of COVID-19 this year, China and ASEAN have helped each other and took on the challenge in solidarity. We have reached important consensus in many respects, including sharing experience on COVID-19 response, ensuring medical supplies, conducting joint research and development of vaccines, and keeping the regional industrial and supply chains stable. At a crucial stage in China's fight against the coronavirus, ASEAN countries promptly provided invaluable support and selfless assistance to China. Once the situation began to ease on its domestic front, China sent expert teams to ASEAN countries, offered material and technical assistance, shared containment experience, and speedily opened "fast tracks" and "green lanes" to facilitate the flow of people and goods.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
Our world is undergoing momentous changes unseen in a century. It is moving toward greater multi-polarity, economic globalization and cultural diversity, and is becoming increasingly information-oriented. Never before have the destinies of people in different countries been so closely connected. At the same time, however, the world is faced with growing uncertainties and instability. The world economy is sluggish; unilateralism and protectionism are on the rise; cyber security issues, major infectious diseases, climate change, and many other non-traditional security threats continue to spread; and the international order and global governance system are being challenged.
Under the new circumstances, China continues to regard ASEAN as a priority in its neighborhood diplomacy and a key region in high-quality Belt and Road cooperation. China supports ASEAN's community-building, supports ASEAN centrality in East Asian cooperation, and supports ASEAN in playing a bigger role in building an open and inclusive regional architecture.
China will work with ASEAN to advance all-round cooperation under the guidance of the Strategic Partnership Vision 2030. Such efforts will help maintain the good momentum for development and prosperity in our region and cultivate a closer China-ASEAN community with a shared future. For that to happen, let me make the following suggestions on what we need to do:
First, we need to enhance strategic mutual trust and further synergize our development plans.
China will work with ASEAN to advance our wide-ranging cooperation in the coming five years in line with the
Plan of Action to Implement the Joint Declaration on China-ASEAN Strategic Partnership for Peace and Prosperity (2021-2025).
China will also work with ASEAN to implement the
China-ASEAN Joint Statement on Synergizing the Belt and Road Initiative and the Master Plan on ASEAN Connectivity 2025.
To be specific, more efforts will be made to build the New International Land-Sea Trade Corridor, strengthen cooperation on infrastructure connectivity including railways, highways, ports, airports, power and communications, speed up the development of existing economic corridors and key projects, and continue to develop the China-ASEAN Multimodal Transport Alliance. Next year will mark the 30th anniversary of China-ASEAN dialogue relations. China will work with ASEAN on the planning and organization of commemorative events and take our strategic partnership to a higher level.
Second, we need to elevate economic and trade cooperation and facilitate an early and full recovery of the regional economy.
China will enhance coordination with ASEAN countries, and take the 10th anniversary of the full establishment of the China-ASEAN FTA as an opportunity to further implement our free trade agreement. China welcomes the signing of the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership and looks forward to its early entry into force. China will work with ASEAN countries to sustain the smooth flow of trade, promote mutual investment, open up markets wider to each other, and foster deeply integrated industrial, supply and value chains. Provided that all necessary COVID-19 containment protocols are duly observed, steps should be taken to facilitate the movement of people and goods. We also need to further deepen and substantiate Lancang-Mekong cooperation and China-BIMP-EAGA cooperation. The CAEXPO should be used fully as a platform with a bigger role to play in promoting all-round economic and trade cooperation between China and ASEAN and in the entire East Asia.
Third, we need to enhance innovation in science and technology and deepen cooperation on the digital economy.
This year is designated the China-ASEAN Year of Digital Economy Cooperation. China will work with ASEAN countries to seize the opportunities presented by the new round of scientific and technological revolution and industrial transformation. We should tap into our complementarity and pursue mutually beneficial cooperation. We could create more highlights of cooperation in such areas as smart city, 5G, artificial intelligence, e-commerce, big data, blockchain and telemedicine, and strengthen the protection of data security and policy communication and coordination, as these efforts will help nurture new drivers for the social and economic development of our two sides. China will work with ASEAN on the China-ASEAN Information Harbor to advance digital connectivity and build a digital Silk Road.
Fourth, we need to strengthen cooperation against COVID-19 and enhance capacity building in public health.
China stands ready for policy dialogue on public health with ASEAN to improve cooperation mechanisms. It is important that we join forces in fighting the coronavirus and step up information sharing and cooperation on the production, development, and deployment of vaccines. When its COVID-19 vaccines are available for use, China will actively consider the needs of ASEAN countries. China will provide financial support to the COVID-19 ASEAN Response Fund, and work with ASEAN in developing the Regional Reserve of Medical Supplies for Public Health Emergencies and launching a Liaison Mechanism for Public Health Emergencies with ASEAN. China will act on the China-ASEAN Human Resources Training Program of Health Silk Road (2020-2022) to train for ASEAN countries 1,000 administrative and specialized personnel in the health sector, in a bid to help deliver higher quality public health services in the region. China will work with ASEAN countries and other members of the international community through greater solidarity and cooperation to support the World Health Organization in playing a leadership role and to build a global community of health for all.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
China has secured major strategic achievements in coordinating COVID-19 response and economic and social development. It is the first major economy in the world to resume growth. The recently concluded Fifth Plenary Session of the 19th CPC Central Committee adopted recommendations for formulating China's 14th five-year plan. The plenum underscored that China will finish building a moderately prosperous society in all respects within the set time frame, and will embark on a new journey next year toward fully building a modern socialist country. Based on a scientific analysis of the new stage of China's development, we will stay committed to the new development philosophy, and actively foster a new development paradigm with domestic circulation as the mainstay and domestic and international circulations reinforcing each other. China will stay as committed as ever to further opening-up, and seek greater synergy through the interplay of its domestic and world economies. China will fuel a worldwide recovery with its own economic rebound, and countries around the world, ASEAN members included, will all benefit from it. Looking ahead, China-ASEAN cooperation will enjoy still greater prospects.
The CAEXPO and CABIS are a results-oriented platform for us to advance regional economic integration. I hope this year's gathering will enable China and ASEAN countries to find more business opportunities, reap more fruits, and usher in a brighter future of prosperity.
To conclude, I wish the CAEXPO and CABIS a full success.
Thank you."
"Remarks by H.E. Xi Jinping
President of the People's Republic of China
At the Leaders' Side Event on Safeguarding the Planet of
The G20 Riyadh Summit
22 November 2020
Dear Colleagues,
Friends,
The Earth is our shared home. We may follow the vision of a community with a shared future for mankind and pitch in to tackle climate and other environmental challenges and protect the blue planet. Let me share with you my thoughts on what G20 could do:
First, we could strengthen our response to climate change.
G20 should continue to take the lead in tackling climate change. We need to follow the guidance of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, and push for the full and effective implementation of the Paris Agreement. Not long ago, I announced China's initiative to scale up its nationally determined contributions and strive to peak carbon dioxide emissions by 2030 and achieve carbon neutrality by 2060. China will honor its commitment and see the implementation through.
Second, we could deepen the transition toward clean energy.
China applauds Saudi Arabia's initiative on Circular Carbon Economy, and supports the shift to low-carbon energy in the post-COVID era to achieve the goal of Sustainable Energy for All. China has put in place the world's biggest clean energy system, and has led the world in the output and sales of new energy vehicles for five years running. Under the recommendations for formulating China's 14th five-year development plan and the long-range goals for 2035, China will pursue clean, low-carbon, safe and efficient use of energy and accelerate the growth of new energy and green industries to promote greener economic and social development in all respects.
Third, we could protect the ecosystem with a respect for Nature.
China supports deepening G20 cooperation in reducing land degradation, conserving coral reefs, and cleaning up plastic from the ocean. Through cooperation in these and many other areas, we could build a stronger defense for global ecological security. The 15th meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity will be held in the Chinese city of Kunming in May next year. China welcomes the participation of all parties and hopes the meeting will set goals and take actions to ensure the protection of global biodiversity in the years ahead. Let us work together for a clean and beautiful world.
Thank you."
"Remarks by H.E. Xi Jinping
President of the People's Republic of China
At Session I of the 15th G20 Leaders' Summit
Beijing, 21 November 2020
Your Majesty King Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud,
Dear Colleagues,
I wish to begin by expressing heartfelt thanks to the Saudi Presidency and especially Your Majesty King Salman for the tremendous efforts in hosting this summit.
This outgoing year, humanity has experienced the most serious global pandemic in a century. Over one million people have lost their lives. The world economy is in recession. Societies and livelihoods are taking a big hit. The impact of COVID-19 is even worse than that of the 2008 global financial crisis.
The G20 has taken swift actions in the wake of COVID-19. At the Extraordinary Summit earlier this year, we agreed to step up cooperation to fight the pandemic. We agreed to advance the R&D of medicines and vaccines, maintain economic and financial stability, keep the industrial and supply chains open, and ease the debt burden of developing countries. These measures have given the world confidence and charted the course for international cooperation against the virus. In this global battle, the G20 has once again played an important and, indeed, irreplaceable role.
As we speak, the pandemic is still wreaking havoc across the world, and some countries face the threat of a second wave of infections. To contain the virus, stabilize the economy and protect livelihood remains a long and arduous journey for all countries. In the meantime, the international architecture is evolving at a faster pace. Rising unilateralism and protectionism are causing disruptions to global industrial and supply chains. While containing the virus on an ongoing basis, we must also stabilize and restore economic growth. For the G20, I believe more efforts are needed in the following areas:
First, build a global firewall against COVID-19.
We must first put the disease under control at home and, on that basis, strengthen exchanges and cooperation to help countries in need. Several G20 members have made progress in vaccine R&D and production. We should speed up action and support the WHO in mobilizing and consolidating resources and distributing vaccines fairly and efficiently. China actively supports and participates in international cooperation on COVID-19 vaccines. We have joined the COVAX facility and stand ready to step up cooperation with other countries on the R&D, production and distribution of vaccines. We will honor our commitment of giving assistance and support to other developing countries, and work to make vaccines a global public good accessible and affordable to people around the world.
Second, ensure the smooth functioning of the global economy.
While containing the virus, we need to restore the secure and smooth operation of global industrial and supply chains. We need to reduce tariffs and barriers, and explore the liberalization of trade of key medical supplies. We need to further harmonize policies and standards and establish "fast tracks" to facilitate the orderly flow of personnel. China has proposed a global mechanism on the mutual recognition of health certificates based on nucleic acid test results in the form of internationally accepted QR codes. We hope more countries will join this mechanism. We also support the G20 in carrying out institutionalized cooperation and building global cooperation networks to facilitate the flow of personnel and goods.
Third, harness the role of the digital economy.
COVID-19 has fueled the boom of new technologies, new business forms and new platforms such as 5G, artificial intelligence (AI) and smart cities, and accelerated the development of a contact-free economy like online shopping, online education and telemedicine. All this opens new pathways for economic growth. We ought to adapt to change and turn crisis into opportunity. We may deepen structural reform and cultivate new growth drivers through scientific and technological innovation and digital transformation. We could foster an enabling environment for the development of the digital economy, enhance data security cooperation, strengthen the digital infrastructure, and level the playing field for high-tech companies from all countries. Meanwhile, we need to address the challenges posed by the digital economy to employment, taxation and vulnerable groups, and seek to bridge the digital divide.
Fourth, pursue more inclusive development.
We should keep our support for developing countries and help them overcome the hardships caused by the pandemic. In spite of its own difficulties, China has fully implemented the Debt Service Suspension Initiative (DSSI) and put off debt repayment totaling over US$1.3 billion. China supports the decision on DSSI extension and will continue to work with other parties for its full implementation. Meanwhile, China will increase the level of debt suspension and relief for countries facing particular difficulties and encourage its financial institutions to provide new financing support on a voluntary basis and according to market principles. We should help women walk out of the shadow of the pandemic, address their special needs, and implement the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action. China has proposed the convening of another Global Leaders' Meeting on Gender Equality and Women's Empowerment in 2025 to contribute to women's development in the post-COVID era. It is also vital that we take the challenge of food security seriously and support the UN in holding the Food Systems Summit next year. In this connection, China proposes the holding of an international conference on food loss and waste in due course, and welcomes the active participation of G20 members and relevant international organizations.
Colleagues,
The grave challenge of COVID-19 has exposed the deficiencies of global governance. The international community has a keen interest in the post-COVID international order and global governance as well as the future role for the G20. In my view, the principle of extensive consultation, joint contribution and shared benefits should guide our way forward. We should uphold multilateralism, pursue openness and inclusiveness, promote mutually beneficial cooperation and keep pace with the times. The G20 ought to play a bigger role in this process.
First, we need to strengthen the UN-centered international system.
The UN is the core institution for addressing international affairs through cooperation. All countries should firmly support the UN's authority and standing, follow the purposes and principles of its Charter, and uphold the international order underpinned by international law. We support the UN in more effectively building global consensus, mobilizing global resources and coordinating global actions. We support a bigger role of the UN in promoting world peace and development.
Second, we need to improve the governance architecture for economic globalization.
We should firmly safeguard the rules-based multilateral trading system that is transparent, nondiscriminatory, open and inclusive, and support the reform of the WTO to enhance its effectiveness and authority. We should promote free trade, oppose unilateralism and protectionism, uphold fair competition, and protect the development rights, interests and space of developing countries. We should continue the reform of the international financial system, conclude the IMF's 16th General Quota Review on schedule, expand the role of the Special Drawing Rights, buttress the global financial safety net, and raise the representation and voice of developing countries. We should also address the challenges to economic globalization head-on, and make it more open, inclusive, balanced and beneficial to all.
Third, we need to promote the sound development of the digital economy.
To address countries' concerns on data security, the digital divide, personal privacy and ethics, we should adopt people-centered and facts-based policies to encourage innovation and build trust. We should support the UN's leadership role in this field, and work together to foster an open, fair, just and nondiscriminatory environment for building the digital economy. Recently, China launched the Global Initiative on Data Security. We may work on that basis and join other parties for discussing and formulating rules on global digital governance. China supports increased dialogue on AI, and proposes a meeting on this in due course to advance the G20 AI Principles and set the course for the healthy development of AI globally. The G20 also needs to discuss developing the standards and principles for central bank digital currencies with an open and accommodating attitude, and properly handle all types of risks and challenges while pushing collectively for the development of the international monetary system.
Fourth, we need to build up capacities for tackling global challenges.
The most pressing task of the moment is to shore up the global public health system and contain COVID-19 and other infectious diseases. We need to enhance the role of the WHO, improve pandemic preparedness and response, forge a strong shield for human health and safety, and build a global community of health for all. We need to scale up international cooperation on ecology and environment to protect the planet Earth, our only homeland. We need to further curtail the production and use of non-essential, disposable plastic goods. COP26 of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change and COP15 of the Convention on Biological Diversity, both to be held next year, may serve as opportunities for forging broader consensus and stronger synergy in building a clean and beautiful world where man and nature coexist in harmony. China calls for a complete ban on illegal trade of wildlife and for stronger exchanges and cooperation on the protection of wild fauna and flora.
Colleagues,
Building on its major strategic gains in fighting COVID-19, China has made steady strides in economic development. The recently concluded Fifth Plenary Session of the 19th CPC Central Committee adopted recommendations for formulating China's 14th five-year plan. The plenum underscored that China will finish building a moderately prosperous society in all respects within the set time frame, and will embark on a new journey next year toward fully building a modern socialist country. Based on a scientific analysis of the new stage of China's development, we will stay committed to the new development philosophy, and actively foster a new development paradigm with domestic circulation as the mainstay and domestic and international circulations reinforcing each other. This new development paradigm is by no means a closed-door policy. Instead, it urges efforts on both the supply and demand sides to ensure unimpeded flow in production, distribution, exchange and consumption. While making the Chinese economy more resilient and competitive, it also aims to build a new system of open economy of higher standards. This will create more opportunities for the world to benefit from China's high-quality development.
China will always be a builder of global peace, a contributor to global development and a defender of international order. On the basis of mutual respect, equality and mutual benefit, China stands ready to pursue peaceful coexistence and common development with all countries. We may bridge differences through dialogue, resolve disputes through negotiation, and make a joint effort for world peace and development.
Colleagues,
As a Chinese poem reads, "Past a fallen ship, one thousand sail onward; for a sick tree, ten thousand thrive by spring." I believe that when COVID-19 is over, our world will rise from the pandemic and emerge even stronger. In that spirit, let us join hands to deliver a better life for our people and build a community with a shared future for mankind."
"Remarks by H.E. Xi Jinping
President of the People's Republic of China
At the 27th APEC Economic Leaders' Meeting
Beijing, 20 November 2020
The Right Honorable Prime Minister Tan Sri Muhyiddin Yassin,
Dear Colleagues,
It gives me great pleasure to join you via video link. I wish to thank Prime Minister Muhyiddin Yassin and the Malaysian government for hosting the meeting.
The past 30-plus years since the inception of APEC has seen rapid evolution of the international landscape and profound transformation of global governance. It has also witnessed a sea change in the Asia-Pacific region.
Over the past three decades and more, APEC cooperation has kept deepening and made substantial progress on many fronts. Guided by the Bogor Goals, we have steadily enhanced regional economic integration. We have advanced trade and investment liberalization and facilitation in tandem with economic and technical cooperation, with a view to realizing mutual complementarity and balanced development of the "two wheels" of APEC cooperation. We have advocated open regionalism and developed an APEC approach of voluntarism, consensus-building, flexibility, pragmatism and incremental progress. Over the years, the Asia-Pacific has weathered two financial crises and lifted over one billion people out of poverty. It has become a leading and most dynamic powerhouse of the global economy, playing an active role in building an open world economy, upholding the multilateral trading system, and spearheading economic globalization.
Three decades on, both the world and the Asia-Pacific are experiencing profound changes, a process further accelerated by COVID-19. The world economy is in the doldrums. Economic globalization is encountering headwinds. Unilateralism and protectionism are on the rise. Balancing equity and efficiency, growth and distribution, and technology and employment is getting more difficult. The wealth gap remains a common sight. The global governance system faces new challenges. For the first time in decades, the Asia-Pacific as a whole registered negative economic growth. Protecting people's health and reviving the economy are two formidable tasks we have to take on. Where should Asia-Pacific cooperation be heading? The answer bears on the development of our region, the well-being of our people, and the future of the world at large.
One priority on this year's APEC agenda is to unveil the post-2020 vision, a pathway toward our goal of building an Asia-Pacific community. This should be taken as a new starting point for us to begin another phase in Asia-Pacific cooperation, sustain the strong momentum of development in our region, and embrace a future of shared prosperity. Together, we can build an Asia-Pacific community with a shared future featuring openness and inclusiveness, innovation-driven growth, greater connectivity, and mutually beneficial cooperation.
First, we need to stay open and inclusive.
The world economy is like the Pacific Ocean around us - It admits water from various rivers, and connects different parts of the world. As such, it has acquired a vast magnitude and enormous vitality. The approach of pursuing cooperation as equals and resolving differences with mutual respect is what essentially makes economic development and prosperity in the Asia-Pacific possible. Throughout the years, APEC has committed itself to deepening regional economic integration and made significant progress in implementing the Bogor Goals. It has also played an important role in steering the evolution of the multilateral trading system. Yet it must be noted that free and open trade and investment cannot be achieved overnight. It is important that the Asia-Pacific should remain the bellwether in safeguarding peace and stability, upholding multilateralism, and fostering an open world economy. We must stay as determined as ever to support the multilateral trading system with the World Trade Organization at its core, promote free and open trade and investment, and make economic globalization more open, inclusive, balanced and beneficial to all. Continued efforts are needed to press ahead with regional economic integration for the early realization of a Free Trade Area of the Asia-Pacific (FTAAP). China welcomes the signing of the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP), and will favorably consider joining the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP).
As we continue to work on free and open trade, we should pay no less attention to economic and technical cooperation. We need to further implement the APEC Strategy for Strengthening Quality Growth and the Action Agenda on Advancing Inclusion, and accommodate the concerns of developing members. We need to address in particular the special needs of women and some other communities, and support micro, small and medium-sized enterprises (MSMEs). Such efforts will contribute to inclusive and sustainable growth. China will host a seminar on advancing economic inclusion through trade and investment to look for suggestions on how trade and investment policies could deliver broader benefits to people. China looks forward to working with all parties to follow up on those suggestions.
Second, we need to pursue innovation-driven growth.
The digital economy represents the future direction of global development, while innovation has fueled the economic takeoff of the Asia-Pacific. We need to proactively seize the opportunities of our times and fully harness our region's abundant human resources, solid technological foundation, and enormous market potential to gain a new competitive edge and open up new possibilities for the betterment of our people's lives. The APEC Internet and Digital Economy Roadmap should be implemented in full to spur the dissemination and application of new technologies, strengthen digital infrastructure, and close the digital divide. We need to improve economic governance and foster an open, fair, equitable and non-discriminatory environment for businesses. This year, China has conducted an APEC case study on smart cities, which we hope will contribute to the formulation of guidelines on smart cities and offer an example for innovative urban development across the region. China calls for experience sharing among APEC members on how to control COVID-19 and achieve economic recovery with digital technologies. China also calls for improving the doing-digital-business environment, energizing market players, and tapping the potential of the digital economy. Such efforts will bring fresh impetus to economic recovery in our region. Next year, China will host a workshop on digital technology-enabled poverty alleviation, in a bid to unleash the role of digital technologies in eradicating poverty in our region.
Third, we need to enhance connectivity.
Connectivity is a vital basis of regional economic integration and an essential underpinning for interconnected development of the world. The ongoing pandemic further highlights the importance of connectivity. We need to continue to implement the APEC Connectivity Blueprint to facilitate the smooth, safe and orderly flow of people, goods, capital and data and achieve a seamlessly connected Asia-Pacific. China has opened "fast tracks" with fellow APEC members like Indonesia, the Republic of Korea, and Singapore to facilitate the movement of people during the pandemic, and more will be done to complete a network of such arrangements. In this connection, it is important to promote the mutual recognition of the COVID-related health information of international travelers. China is ready to take active and well-thought-out steps with all other parties to set up "green lanes", which will help make customs clearance more efficient, unclog bottlenecks, and reconnect disrupted links. We may also promote the creation of international cooperation platforms on industrial and supply chains to ensure the safe and smooth operation of industrial and supply chains in our region and beyond. We need to pursue greater complementarity among the development plans and connectivity initiatives of different parties to forge a bigger synergy. On China's part, we hope to work with all partners in high-quality Belt and Road cooperation, which we believe will set up a bigger platform for connectivity in the Asia-Pacific and inject a stronger impetus into the economy of our region and the wider world.
Fourth, we need to promote mutually beneficial cooperation.
The Asia-Pacific economies have a high degree of mutual complementarity and enjoy deeply intertwined interests. Our economic cooperation has never been a zero-sum political game in which one gains at the expense of the other. Rather, our cooperation has provided us with a development platform to ensure what we each do can be mutually reinforcing and beneficial to all. There is a Malay proverb that goes, "bukit sama didaki, lurah sama dituruni", which means to climb the hill together and go down the ravine together. It aptly captures the spirit of our Asia-Pacific family. COVID-19 serves as another reminder that only solidarity and cooperation can enable us to prevail over challenges. We need to deepen the Asia-Pacific partnership featuring mutual trust, inclusiveness and mutually beneficial cooperation and follow the approach of extensive consultation, joint contribution and shared benefits. We need to keep raising the level and scope of our regional cooperation to achieve shared prosperity for the whole region. It is important that we advance practical cooperation on the basis of consensus, properly manage differences and disagreements, and keep Asia-Pacific cooperation in the right direction to ensure APEC's sound development in the long run.
At this very moment, fighting COVID-19 is the most pressing task for us all. We must step up research and development of vaccines and related exchanges, and work harder to make the vaccines a global public good to improve their accessibility and affordability in developing countries. For that purpose, China has joined the COVID-19 Vaccine Global Access Facility (COVAX). We support APEC in strengthening policy exchanges and capacity building in the areas of public health and MSMEs. China has made a telemedicine initiative to give people in poor and remote areas access to timely and quality medical services. We hope these efforts will contribute to anti-epidemic cooperation and economic recovery.
China highly values the role of APEC. We will continue to support the organization's development, and with our root struck deep in the Asia-Pacific, we will continue to serve its development and prosperity.
Colleagues,
This year, the Chinese people have exerted strenuous efforts to score a major strategic achievement in controlling COVID-19. Working with other countries in these trying times, China has contributed its wisdom and resources to the global fight against the coronavirus. It has shared with various parties full experience on containment and treatment and done its best to assist other countries and international organizations. All these are among the concrete actions we have taken toward building a global community of health for all. At the same time, we have coordinated COVID-19 control with economic and social development at home, and scaled up macro policy response so that the Chinese economy could stabilize, pick up, and steadily upgrade. In the first three quarters of this year, China's GDP grew by 0.7 percent, on course to register positive growth for the whole year. It is also worth noting that by the end of this year, we will have lifted out of poverty all rural residents living below the current poverty line.
The recently concluded Fifth Plenary Session of the 19th CPC Central Committee adopted recommendations for formulating China's 14th five-year plan. The plenum underscored that China will finish building a moderately prosperous society in all respects within the set time frame, and will embark on a new journey next year toward fully building a modern socialist country. Based on a scientific analysis of the new stage of China's development, we will stay committed to the new development philosophy, and actively foster a new development paradigm with domestic circulation as the mainstay and domestic and international circulations reinforcing each other. China will build a new system of open economy of higher standards and create a more attractive investment and business environment.
To conclude, China is ready to work with all other parties in the Asia-Pacific to build and share a brighter future of peace and prosperity for our region and get ever closer to the goal of a community with a shared future for mankind.
I thank you all."
"Keynote Address by H.E. Xi Jinping
President of the People's Republic of China
At the APEC CEO Dialogues
19 November 2020
Leaders of the Business Community,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Dear Friends,
At a critical time when the world is fighting COVID-19 and exploring ways to achieve economic recovery, I am glad to have this dialogue with you through video links.
This is an unusual time in history for us humanity. The COVID-19 pandemic has accelerated changes unseen in a century in the world. The global economy finds itself into deep recession, its industrial and supply chains are disrupted, and governance, trust, development and peace deficits continue to grow. Mounting unilateralism, protectionism and bullying as well as backlash against economic globalization have added to risks and uncertainties in the world economy.
However, peace and development remain the underlying trend of our times. Meeting challenges through cooperation is the only way forward for us in the international community. This pandemic once again shows that the interests of all countries are closely interwoven and that humankind shares a common stake. Indeed, our world is an indivisible community with a shared future. To beat the virus and promote global recovery, we in the international community must close ranks and jointly respond to this crisis and meet the test. All countries should act in the spirit of partnership and get through this tough time together. We need to step up policy communication and coordination, intensify all-round global cooperation against COVID-19 and keep global economy open. By doing so, we can defeat the virus at an early date and achieve robust, sustainable, balanced and inclusive growth for all.
Since the start of this year, facing the sudden onslaught of COVID-19, China has put people and life above everything else. The 1.4 billion Chinese people, united as one, have made a major strategic achievement in fighting the virus. We have endeavored to both contain the virus and speedily bring production and life back to normal, thus maintaining economic and social development. China's economy resumed positive overall growth in the first three quarters this year. This hard-won achievement speaks volumes about the resilience and vitality of the Chinese economy. The fundamentals sustaining China's steady and long-term economic growth remain unchanged. We have full confidence and ability to maintain stable economic performance and achieve the goals of finishing the building of a moderately prosperous society in all respects and eradicating poverty within the set time frame.
At its recently concluded Fifth Plenary Session of the 19th Central Committee, the Communist Party of China deliberated on and adopted the recommendations for formulating China's 14th Five-Year Plan. According to the recommendations, China will complete building a moderately prosperous society in all respects within the set time frame. From next year on, China will embark on a new journey toward fully building a modern socialist country. We will develop a full understanding of the new development stage, and apply the new development philosophy. We will foster a new development paradigm with domestic circulation as the mainstay and domestic and international circulations reinforcing each other. The new development paradigm is a strategic decision we have made based on the current stage and conditions of development in China and with full consideration given to economic globalization and changes in the external environment.
First, we will expand domestic demand as a strategic priority and ensure smooth flow of economic activity.
In recent years, China's development model of reliance on foreign markets and resources has gone through some gradual changes. The ratio of foreign trade to GDP dropped from 67 percent in 2006 to less than 32 percent in 2019, while the ratio of current account surplus to GDP has come down from 9.9 percent in 2007 to less than one percent today. In seven years since the 2008 global financial crisis, the contribution of China's domestic demand to GDP exceeded 100 percent, making domestic consumption the main driver of its growth. In promoting domestic and international circulations, the Chinese economy has become much more domestically driven and the performance of China's development has been significantly enhanced. Fostering a new development paradigm will enable China to better adjust its economic structure and achieve high-quality development. China will continue to deepen supply-side structural reforms and further expand domestic demand. Doing so will make production, distribution, flow of goods and services, and consumption in China more based on domestic market, and it will make the supply system better adapt to domestic demand. This will usher in a higher stage of well-adjusted balance where demand drives supply and supply, in turn, creates demand.
Second, we will vigorously make scientific and technological innovations to foster new growth drivers.
A new round of technological revolution and industrial transformation is gathering pace, and science and technology are playing an even more significant role in boosting social productivity. To China, innovation has always been the primary driver of development, and we have made major achievements by implementing an innovation-driven development strategy. As China enters a new stage of development, factors of production underpinning its development have gone through profound changes. This means that China must pursue innovation to achieve high-quality growth driven by domestic demand. We will fully leverage the demand of our super-sized domestic market and the strengths of its complete industrial system and redouble efforts to turn research outcomes into real productivity. We will endeavor to build an innovation system that integrates science and technology, education, industries and the financial sector, and upgrade the industrial chains. This will sustain China's long-term economic development.
Third, we will continue to deepen reform and energize the market.
What we have achieved during the past 40-plus years of China's reform and opening-up shows one thing: Reform is crucial for unleashing and boosting productivity. China has entered a new stage of development and faces new tasks of reform. We will take more steps and remove with greater resolve deep-seated systemic and institutional barriers to modernize China's governance system and capacity. We will enhance our ability to better apply the new development philosophy, namely, one of pursuing innovative, coordinated, green, open and shared development. We will transform the growth model, upgrade quality and performance, and make growth drivers more robust. We will accelerate the building of a modernized economy, strengthen protection of property and intellectual property rights, set up a high-standard market system and improve mechanisms for fair competition. All this will fully motivate all types of market entities.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
Openness enables a country to move forward, while seclusion holds it back. In today's world where economic globalization has become an irreversible trend, no country can develop itself by keeping its doors closed. China is already deeply integrated into the global economy and the international system. We will not reverse course or run against historical trend by "decoupling" or forming a small circle to keep others out. By fostering a new development paradigm, we are not pursuing a closed-door circulation, but open and mutually reinforcing domestic and international circulations.
- The new development paradigm will enable China to fully unlock its market potential and create greater demand for other countries.
China's per capita GDP has topped US$10,000, and its middle-income population has exceeded 400 million. It is projected by many international institutions that China's retail market will reach six trillion dollars in size this year. As China's economy grows, our people naturally want to lead an even better life. This will create more demand for a greater variety of quality products, technologies and services from across the world. Despite the damage inflicted by COVID-19, China's import of goods has basically recovered to the level of last year. The China International Fair for Trade in Services held in Beijing this September brought together 22,000 companies from 148 countries and regions to its online and off line events. Not long ago, the third China International Import Expo was successfully held in Shanghai. It was participated by companies from 124 countries and regions. The exhibition area was further expanded. More deals were sealed, reaching US$72.62 billion in value. China will further cut tariffs and government instituted transaction costs, and open a number of demonstration zones for creative promotion of import trade to increase import of quality goods and services. I am confident that the steady unleashing of the China market potential will create vast business possibilities for other countries, and this will create stronger impetus for maintaining stable growth of the global economy.
- The new development paradigm will enable China to open up wider and share more opportunities for common development with other countries.
China is committed to opening-up, which is its fundamental policy, a policy that will not change at any time. The world economy has faced more instability and uncertainty this year. Protectionism and unilateralism are mounting. Yet China has not stalled in its pursuit of opening-up. As a matter of fact, we have taken many policy steps to open the country still wider. It includes the following: The Foreign Investment Law and its supporting rules and regulations have been fully implemented. The negative list for foreign investment has been further cut. Access to the financial market has been steadily eased. A master plan has been drawn up for the development of the Hainan Free Trade Port. Reform and opening-up in Shenzhen and Pudong have been further advanced. And more pilot programs have been conducted for creative promotion of trade in services.
I wish to reiterate that China's commitment to opening-up is strong, and that China will open its door still wider to the world. China will continue to advance trade and investment liberalization and facilitation, to conclude, through negotiation, high-standard free trade agreements with more countries, and to actively engage in bilateral, multilateral and regional mechanisms for trade and investment cooperation. The purpose is to build a higher-standard open economy in China. China will improve its system for foreign investment management based on pre-establishment national treatment and negative list. The lawful rights and interests of foreign investors will be protected. China will open up the service sector in a well-planned way, and foster a market-oriented, world-class business environment underpinned by a sound legal framework. China will give its pilot free trade zones greater power in carrying out reform, and turn them into new pacesetters of opening-up. At the same time, China will continue to firmly support the multilateral trading system, get more actively involved in reforming the system of global economic governance, and play its part to make this system fairer and more equitable.
- The new development paradigm will enable China to continue to deepen international cooperation for shared benefits.
China will take a more active part in the international division of labor, get more effectively integrated into global industrial, supply and value chains, and more enthusiastically expand exchanges and cooperation with other countries. We welcome cooperation with every other region, country, or company that wants to do so. China will remain committed to openness and cooperation, and adhere to multilateralism and the principle of extensive consultation, joint contribution and shared benefits. China will work to pursue high-quality Belt and Road cooperation with its partners, and seek greater complementarity between the development strategies and connectivity plans of regions and countries concerned. China will further harmonize policies, rules and standards with BRI partners, and deepen effective cooperation with them on infrastructure, industry, trade, scientific and technological innovation, public health and people-to-people exchange. Together, we will make the Belt and Road a model of cooperation, health, recovery and growth and deepen cooperation on green development. This will allow us to contribute to common development and the building of a community with a shared future for mankind.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
The Asia-Pacific is our shared home. To sustain peace, stability, development and prosperity in the region meets the interests of us all. As Asia-Pacific economies are connected by the same ocean, we benefit from close interactions between our peoples and geographic proximity. We should follow market trends, seize opportunities created by economic globalization and regional economic integration and become forerunners driving global growth. The development of the Asia-Pacific and greater economic cooperation in our region represent an underlying historical trend, and such development and cooperation will continue to be imbued with strong vitality, because they respond to the call of the people in our region.
Last year, I proposed building an Asia-Pacific community with a shared future featuring openness, inclusiveness, innovation-driven growth, greater connectivity and mutually beneficial cooperation. This year, thanks to participation of all economies concerned, the APEC Post-2020 Vision has been formulated, which sets out ambitious goals and important guidelines for our future cooperation. Let us not forget that we are a community with a common stake, and let us move toward closer regional economic integration. We need to accelerate innovation-driven growth, enhance regional connectivity, and realize inclusive and sustainable development. Step by step, we can surely turn our vision into reality and deliver a better life for people in the region.
The Asia-Pacific business community is an engine driving economic growth. You have witnessed development and cooperation in our region; and indeed, you have contributed to it every step on the way. You have an important role to play in shaping the future of our region, and there is no doubt you will benefit from its development. Asia-Pacific cooperation has entered a new historical stage at a time when the world is facing multiple challenges. The business community needs a broader vision, greater resilience and stronger entrepreneurship. With them, I am sure you will create greater prospects for business development.
I hope you will contribute your share to promoting openness and development.
You may work to advance trade and investment liberalization and facilitation, and ensure the security and stability of industrial and supply chains of our region; and your work will enable the Asia-Pacific to take the lead in achieving economic recovery and prosperity.
I hope you will explore innovation-driven growth.
You may take bold steps to pursue organizational, technological and market innovations; that will make the Asia-Pacific a fertile ground for scientific breakthroughs and a pacesetter for innovation.
I hope you will be partners for achieving win-win cooperation.
You may tap fully into the potential for cooperation, and make the pie of cooperation even bigger for all our people to benefit from.
I hope you will actively fulfill your social responsibilities.
You may all play active parts in the international fight against COVID-19 and do more to help disadvantaged groups to add more momentum to global development.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Dear Friends,
The day will come when we finally beat COVID-19 and win victory in this fight. Let us work in solidarity and weather the storm together. Let us stay true to openness and cooperation and make development and circulations at home and overseas reinforce each other. Together, we can surely deliver a brighter future for all of us, both here in the Asia-Pacific and across the world!"
"Remarks by H.E. Xi Jinping
President of the People's Republic of China
At the 12th BRICS Summit
Beijing, 17 November 2020
Your Excellency President Vladimir Putin,
Your Excellency Prime Minister Narendra Modi,
Your Excellency President Cyril Ramaphosa,
Your Excellency President Jair Bolsonaro,
I wish to begin by thanking President Putin and the Russian government for their thoughtful organization of this BRICS Summit. Right now, the world is caught between a pandemic of the century and momentous changes never seen in the last one hundred years. The international landscape keeps evolving in profound ways. At such a critical moment, we are meeting to discuss our joint response to COVID-19 and draw a blueprint for the future of BRICS. The meeting has thus taken on a special significance.
Around the world, COVID-19 is posing a grave threat to people's life and well-being. The global public health system is facing a severe test. Human society is going through the most serious pandemic in the past century. International trade and investment have shrunk considerably. The flow of goods and personnel has been impeded. Factors for uncertainty and instability are numerous. The world economy is witnessing the worst recession since the Great Depression in the 1930s. Unilateralism, protectionism and acts of bullying are becoming rampant, and the deficit in governance, trust, development and peace is widening instead of narrowing.
Despite all this, we remain convinced that the theme of our times, peace and development, has not changed, and that the trend toward multipolarity and economic globalization cannot be turned around. We must keep people's welfare close to heart and pursue the vision of a community with a shared future for mankind. Through concrete actions, we will contribute our share to making the world a better place for everyone.
First, we need to uphold multilateralism, and safeguard peace and stability in our world.
History teaches us that multilateralism, equity and justice can keep war and conflict at bay, while unilateralism and power politics will inflate dispute and confrontation. Flouting rules and laws, treading the path of unilateralism and bullying, and withdrawing from international organizations and agreements run counter to the will of the general public and trample on the legitimate rights and dignity of all nations.
Facing the choice between multilateralism and unilateralism, and between justice and hegemony, we BRICS countries must stand up for equity and justice in the world. We must hold high the banner of multilateralism, and defend the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations. We must endeavor to safeguard the UN-centered international system and the international order underpinned by international law. It is important that countries rise above ideology and respect each other's choices of social system, economic model and development path consistent with their national conditions. We need to champion the concept of common, comprehensive, cooperative and sustainable security. We need to work through consultation and negotiation to address differences. We need to oppose interference in others' internal affairs, as well as unilateral sanctions and long-arm jurisdiction. With concerted efforts, we will foster a peaceful and stable environment for development.
Second, we need to enhance solidarity and coordination, and come together to meet the COVID-19 challenge.
The coronavirus is still causing havoc in many places and waves of infection are resurging. Securing a worldwide victory against the pandemic remains an uphill journey. Nearly one year into the battle, many countries have gained important experience on COVID-19 containment and made encouraging progress in drugs and vaccine research and development (R&D). Our fight over the past year proves that as long as we stand in unity and follow science, we can control the spread of the virus and offset its impact.
What is important is that we put people's life and health first, mobilize all resources and do everything we can to protect people's safety and well-being. It is important to step up international coordination and response, and share information and epidemic control experience to stop the virus in its tracks. It is important that we support WHO's crucial leadership role in this endeavor. As we speak, Chinese companies are working with their Russian and Brazilian partners on phase-III clinical trials of vaccines, and we are prepared to have cooperation with South Africa and India as well. China has joined the COVAX facility, a platform on which we will share vaccines with other countries, developing countries in particular. We will actively consider providing vaccines to BRICS countries where there is a need. To support the development of the BRICS Vaccine R&D Center, China has designated its own national center. We will work with other BRICS countries both online and offline to advance collective vaccine research and trials, set up plants, authorize production and recognize each other's standards. I propose that we convene a BRICS symposium on traditional medicine to explore its role in coronavirus prevention and treatment. This may well boost the global arsenal against COVID-19.
What has happened shows that acts of politicization, stigmatization, blame-shifting and scapegoating only serve to disrupt overall global cooperation against the virus. We need to overcome division with unity, replace bias with reason and stamp out the "political virus". In this way, we will pool the maximum global synergy to beat the virus.
Third, we need to pursue openness and innovation, and promote global economic recovery.
The IMF predicts that the world economy will shrink by 4.4 percent this year, and that emerging markets and developing countries will experience negative growth for the first time in 60 years. To stabilize the economy while controlling the pandemic is the pressing task facing all countries. Under the precondition that safety is ensured, we must actively pursue economic recovery and seek to carry out economic and social activities in an orderly way as we fight the virus on an ongoing basis. We need to strengthen macroeconomic policy coordination, follow through on the initiative on facilitating cross-border flow of people and goods, and keep industrial and supply chains safe and open to better enable the resumption of business activities and economic recovery.
The practice of using the pandemic to pursue "de-globalization" or clamor for "economic decoupling" and "parallel systems" will end up hurting one's own interests and the common interests of all. Under the current situation, we need to stand firm for building an open world economy. We need to uphold the multilateral trading system with the WTO at its core and reject abuse of the "national security" concept for protectionist purposes. We need to leverage the new business forms and models triggered by the pandemic, strengthen cooperation on scientific and technological innovation, and nurture an open, fair, equitable and nondiscriminatory business environment to bring about common development of higher quality and stronger resilience.
China will work with other parties to flesh out the BRICS Partnership on New Industrial Revolution at a faster pace. We will open in Xiamen, Fujian Province a BRICS Partnership on New Industrial Revolution innovation center to advance cooperation on policy coordination, personnel training and project development, and we welcome the active participation of fellow BRICS countries. Not long ago, China launched a Global Initiative on Data Security, which aims to jointly foster a peaceful, secure, open, cooperative and orderly cyberspace to enable sound growth of the digital economy. We look forward to support from our fellow BRICS countries.
Fourth, we need to prioritize people's livelihood, and promote sustainable global development.
Development holds the master key to all problems. All our efforts, from clearing the impact of COVID-19 and getting back to a normal life, to ending conflicts and humanitarian crises, ultimately depend on people-centered development. According to World Bank forecast, global per capita income might drop 3.6 percent this year, and some 88 million to 115 million people might be pushed into extreme poverty due to the pandemic.
COVID-19 is a challenge we have to face head-on. We need to call on the international community to place the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development at the heart of international development cooperation. Poverty eradication must be made a primary goal, and more resources must be channeled to poverty reduction, education, health and infrastructure development. We need to support the UN's coordinating role and foster global development partnerships that are more equal and balanced, so that the fruits of development will spread to more developing countries and the needs of underprivileged groups will be better addressed.
Fifth, we need to pursue green and low-carbon development, and strive for harmony between man and nature.
Global warming will not stop due to COVID-19. To tackle climate change, we must never relax our efforts. We need to implement the Paris Agreement in good faith, stick to the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities, and provide more help to developing countries, particularly the small island developing states. China is prepared to take on international responsibilities befitting its level of development, and will continue to make extraordinary efforts to address climate change. Recently, I announced at the UN China's initiative to scale up its nationally determined contributions and adopt more forceful policies and measures to strive to peak carbon dioxide emissions by 2030 and achieve carbon neutrality by 2060. You can count on China to keep its promise.
Colleagues,
The recently concluded Fifth Plenary Session of the 19th CPC Central Committee adopted recommendations for formulating China's 14th five-year plan. The plenum underscored that China will finish building a moderately prosperous society in all respects within the set time frame, and will embark on a new journey next year toward fully building a modern socialist country. Based on a scientific analysis of the new stage of China's development, we will stay committed to the new development philosophy, and actively foster a new development paradigm with domestic circulation as the mainstay and domestic and international circulations reinforcing each other. We will redouble efforts to expand domestic demand, deepen reform across the board and promote innovation in science and technology to add impetus to China's economic growth. China will not shut its door of opening-up; it will embrace the world with more open arms. China will be more vigorous in integrating with the global market and will take greater initiative in deepening international cooperation. In so doing, China will create more opportunities and space for global recovery and growth.
All of us are indeed passengers in the same boat. When the wind is strong and the tides are high, we must be even more focused on our direction. We must keep pace and work as a team to break the waves and navigate steadily toward a brighter future.
Thank you."
"Speech by H.E. Xi Jinping
President of the People's Republic of China
At the Official Ceremony of the Third Edition of the Paris Peace Forum
Beijing, 12 November 2020
Your Excellency President Emmanuel Macron,
Colleagues,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Dear Friends,
It gives me great pleasure to attend the third edition of the Paris Peace Forum. Since its inception, the Forum has enabled parties to deepen mutual understanding on improving global governance, promoting multilateralism, and safeguarding world peace. The role this important platform has played is positive and significant. I want to commend President Macron and France for all their worthy efforts.
Right now, the global landscape is fast evolving. Traditional and non-traditional security threats keep emerging. Instability and uncertainties are growing in the international situation. Global threats and challenges require global responses. With that in mind, I wish to share with you the following three proposals:
First, let us show solidarity and help each other to jointly fight COVID-19. The coronavirus is still wreaking havoc around the world. We need to put people and life first, place people's well-being front and center, respect science, and make more targeted and concerted response. We need to give full play to the crucial leadership role of the World Health Organization in facilitating the joint global response against COVID-19.
China will continue to share with others experience in containing the virus and expertise in diagnostics and therapeutics, and provide assistance in essential medical supplies. China will honor its commitment to make Chinese vaccines a global public good. China will help the global community, developing countries in particular, enhance preparedness for public health emergencies. Together, we could build a global community of health for all.
Second, let us embrace openness and cooperation to jointly promote recovery. Two weeks ago, the Fifth Plenum of the 19th CPC Central Committee deliberated on and adopted the recommendations on formulating China's 14th five-year plan for economic and social development and the long-range goals for 2035. The course has been charted for China's development in the years ahead. China will continue to follow the new development philosophy, foster a new development paradigm, and pursue high-quality development. To this end, China will stay committed to deepening reform and opening wider to the world. China will work with the rest of the international community to keep the global industrial and supply chains stable and foster an open world economy. China will earnestly act on the G20 debt service suspension initiative for poorest countries. China will take an active part in international development cooperation and help African and other developing countries tide over their current difficulties.
Green economy represents the future of human progress. It also holds the key to promoting recovery. Both China and Europe are followers of green development, and both are committed to the implementation of the Paris Agreement on climate change. Not long ago, I announced China's initiative to scale up the nationally determined contributions to peak carbon dioxide emissions by 2030 and achieve carbon neutrality by 2060. Implementation plans will be drawn up accordingly. Next year, China, Europe and France will each host an international conference on biodiversity, on climate change and on nature conservation. We could take such opportunities to deepen cooperation in these fields.
Third, let us uphold justice to jointly safeguard world peace. We need to adhere to peaceful coexistence. We need to respect other countries' right to development and their independent choice of development paths and models. We need to uphold multilateralism, oppose unilateralism, hegemony and power politics, and reject all forms of terrorism and acts of extreme violence. We need to work together to safeguard equity, justice, peace and security in the world.
China and France, both permanent members on the UN Security Council, shoulder special and important responsibilities for world peace. China follows an independent foreign policy of peace. China is committed to the path of peaceful development. We call on all countries to uphold international law and the basic norms governing international relations, determine their position on the merits of each matter, and rise above ideological bias and confrontation. China will step up communication and coordination with France and other countries and play a positive part for the political settlement of international and regional issues and for upholding world peace and stability.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
As the Chinese saying goes, "The Universal Way leads to the greater good of all." Peace and development are the theme of our times. They are the unstoppable trend of history. Given the challenges facing humankind, countries need to strengthen solidarity, not create estrangement; they need to advance cooperation, not provoke conflicts. Let us join hands to build a community with a shared future for mankind and bring greater benefit to people of our world.
I wish this Forum a full success.
Thank you."
"Remarks by H.E. Xi Jinping
President of the People's Republic of China
At the 20th Meeting of the Council of Heads of State of
The Shanghai Cooperation Organization
Beijing, 10 November 2020
Your Excellency President Vladimir Putin,
Dear Colleagues,
Let me begin by thanking President Putin and Russia for the thoughtful organization of this meeting. During its presidency of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO), Russia has earnestly performed its duties and advanced the SCO's sound development despite the impact of COVID-19. China highly commends Russia for its contribution.
Since its founding, the SCO has traveled an extraordinary journey. It has stood the test of time and become a major constructive force in the Eurasian region and global affairs. Committed to the Shanghai Spirit, SCO members have enhanced cooperation in the political, economic, security, people-to-people and cultural fields, setting an example for a new type of international relations that features mutual respect, equity, justice and win-win cooperation. In the face of COVID-19, we have backed each other up to tide over the difficulties together. Such solidarity has injected positive energy into both the SCO's steady development and international cooperation against the coronavirus.
Colleagues,
The COVID-19 pandemic has accelerated shifts in the international landscape. The world is entering a period of turbulence and transformation. The international community now faces a major test with choices to be made between multilateralism and unilateralism, openness and seclusion, cooperation and confrontation. "What is going on with the world?" "What shall we do about it?" - These are the questions awaiting answers from the people of our time.
Ancient Chinese teachings tell us that "men of insight see the trend, while men of wisdom ride it". Humanity lives in a global village where the interests and destinies of all countries are intertwined. People across the world increasingly yearn for a better life. The trend toward peace, development, cooperation and mutual benefit is unstoppable. History has proven and will continue to prove that good-neighborliness will prevail over a beggar-thy-neighbor approach, mutually beneficial cooperation will replace zero-sum game, and multilateralism will win over unilateralism.
In the current circumstances, the SCO is required to carry forward the Shanghai Spirit and deepen solidarity and collaboration. Together, we will contribute more to the stability and development of countries in the region and take more steps toward building a community with a shared future for mankind.
First, we need to step up anti-epidemic cooperation and build a community of health for us all.
Right now, COVID-19 is still presenting an ongoing threat. To fight the virus that respects no borders, we must take up the most powerful weapon of solidarity and cooperation, and rise up to the most imperative task of saving people's lives.
We need to strengthen our joint response to COVID-19, support each other's containment efforts, and uphold regional and global public health security. We need to support the World Health Organization's crucial leadership role, oppose attempts to politicize the pandemic or mislabel the coronavirus, and jointly resist any "political virus". We need to put the SCO's health cooperation mechanisms into full use, and deepen exchanges and cooperation in epidemic monitoring, scientific research, and disease control and treatment. China proposes that hotline contacts be created between SCO members' centers for disease control (CDCs) for timely updates on cross-border transmission of communicable diseases. The unique value and important role of traditional medicine has been highlighted in the battle against COVID-19, and we need to continue to hold the SCO Forum on Traditional Medicine to deepen exchanges and mutual learning in this field. Vaccines play a vital role in defeating the virus. China has joined the COVAX facility, and will actively consider SCO countries' need for vaccines to help protect people's safety and health in our countries.
Second, we need to safeguard security and stability and build a community of security for us all.
Security and stability are the number one precondition for a country's development, and thus concern the core interests of all countries. We need to act on the vision of common, comprehensive, cooperative and sustainable security, address all forms of threats and challenges effectively, and foster a sound security environment in our region.
We need to firmly support countries concerned in their law-based efforts to steadily advance major domestic political agenda, firmly support countries in safeguarding political security and social stability, and firmly oppose interference by external forces in the domestic affairs of SCO members under whatever pretexts. We need to deepen solidarity and mutual trust, and resolve disputes and differences through dialogue and consultation, in order to cement the political foundation for SCO development. It is important that we forestall terrorist, separatist and extremist attempts to exploit the pandemic for disruption, curb the proliferation of drugs, crack down on Internet-based propagation of extremist ideology, and deepen SCO members' law-enforcement cooperation. It is important that we uphold bio-security, data security and outer-space security, and engage in active communication and dialogue in this field. China has launched the Global Initiative on Data Security, which aims to galvanize efforts to shape a peaceful, secure, open, cooperative and orderly cyberspace. We welcome the participation of all parties in this Initiative. The situation in Afghanistan involves the security and stability in the wider region. We need to make good use of the SCO-Afghanistan Contact Group to help the country realize peace and reconstruction.
Third, we need to deepen practical cooperation and build a community of development for us all.
True development is development for all and good development is sustainable. We need to be guided by the vision of innovative, coordinated, green, open and shared development and open up more opportunities for practical cooperation to facilitate economic recovery and betterment of people's lives.
We need to forge greater synergy of the Belt and Road Initiative with national development strategies as well as region-wide cooperation initiatives such as the Eurasian Economic Union. We need to enhance connectivity and further integrate our industrial, supply and value chains for unimpeded economic circulation in the region. We need to facilitate reopening of economic activities through the "fast track" that steps up mobility of people and the "green lane" that quickens the flow of goods. We need to foster an open, fair and nondiscriminatory business environment for each other's companies, and expand mutual investment among us. We need to seize opportunities from the new round of technological revolution and industrial transformation to step up cooperation in digital economy, e-commerce, artificial intelligence and smart cities. Next year, China will host a China-SCO forum on the digital economy industry in Chongqing, which will provide a platform for innovation cooperation among parties. We need to put the people first, and implement more joint projects that deliver real benefits to them. China supports setting up an SCO joint working group on poverty reduction and stands ready to share our good experience with other parties.
Fourth, we need to nourish people-to-people amity and build a community of cultural exchanges for us all.
Each civilization is distinct and none is superior to others. We need to promote mutual learning between our civilizations and enhance good-neighborliness and friendship between our countries. This allows us to enhance public support for the SCO's long-term development.
We may use various forms of communication to make the SCO's achievements more widely known and win stronger public support for the SCO vision of cooperation. We may support the Organization's exchanges and cooperation in education, culture, sports, media and women's welfare, and institute an all-round, multi-channel structure of deeper cooperation. China will host an SCO non-governmental friendship forum next year, and will continue to hold SCO Youth Campus events, to which 600 young people will be invited in the coming three years, to deepen mutual understanding among the younger generation and bring them closer together.
We may better coordinate the SCO's cooperation agenda with the necessity for a long-term fight against COVID-19. We may employ new working methods and flexible cooperation forms and keep the relevant mechanisms running effectively. The SCO Secretariat and the Regional Anti-Terrorist Structure need to play their coordinating role, and SCO members need to give stronger support to the work of the Permanent Bodies.
Colleagues,
Seventy-five years ago, our forefathers won the world anti-fascist war and founded the United Nations (UN), thus writing a new chapter in human history. Drawing lessons from the past, we need to act to champion multilateralism, improve global governance and uphold the international order. We need to follow the principle of extensive consultation, joint contribution and shared benefits, and build a world where global affairs are discussed by all, the governance system built by all, and development fruits shared by all.
The SCO needs to expand its network of partnerships and conduct extensive cooperation with observers, dialogue partners, the UN and other international organizations. It should play a more active role in international and regional affairs, and stay committed to building an open, inclusive, clean and beautiful world that enjoys lasting peace, universal security and common prosperity.
Colleagues,
China cannot be separated from the world in achieving development, and the world also needs China for prosperity. Now, China is speeding up efforts to foster a new development paradigm with domestic circulation as the mainstay and domestic and international circulations reinforcing each other. New mechanisms are being put in place to build an open economy of a higher standard. China will remain committed to a win-win strategy of opening-up. It will seek development impetus from the world and contribute more to the world with its own development. We welcome all parties to capitalize on China's development opportunity and make active endeavors to deepen cooperation with China.
China congratulates President Emomali Rahmon on taking over the chairmanship of the SCO Council of Heads of State, and will give full support to Tajikistan during its presidency. Next year, we will celebrate the 20th anniversary of the SCO. Let us hold high the banner of the Shanghai Spirit, forge ahead with strong cooperation, strive for the better development of our Organization, and build an even closer community with a shared future for us all.
Thank you."
"Beijing, 7 November 2020
Distinguished Guests,
Friends,
It gives me great pleasure to be part of the Global Advisory Board meeting of the School of Public Policy and Management of Tsinghua University. Since its founding a year ago, the board has served as an important platform for experts and scholars in China and around the world to engage in discussions of theories and practices of public management. By focusing on challenges of global governance, this year's meeting is highly relevant as it seeks to answer the calls of our time as well as the international community.
COVID-19, which continues to spread and is re-surging, has put people's health and lives in jeopardy, plunged the world economy into deep recession, and accelerated the evolution of the international architecture. Meanwhile, international cooperation against COVID-19 is being undermined by scapegoating. World economic recovery is threatened by protectionism. And the existing international order is eroded by unilateralism and bullying practices.
Facing this common challenge, can the international community choose solidarity over division, opening-up over isolation, and cooperation over confrontation? This has put the wisdom, conscience and courage of humanity to a grave test. What has happened since the start of COVID-19 has proved time and again that humankind is a community with a shared future, multilateralism is the right way forward, and that strengthened global governance is an urgent necessity.
Throughout its response to the coronavirus, China has put lives and well-being of its people front and center, and has taken a science-based approach guided by a strong sense of responsibility. We have, with concrete actions, acted on the vision of building a community with a shared future for mankind. Domestically, we mounted a decisive and effective campaign that quickly brought the virus under control. Internationally, we actively participate in and promote global cooperation. We launched the largest emergency humanitarian operation in the history of the People's Republic, sending 36 medical expert teams to 34 countries, and extending assistance to over 150 countries and international organizations. Working with other countries, we put in place "fast tracks" for travels, "green corridors" for the flow of goods and "lifelines" for the transportation of food, to keep industrial and supply chains stable and open and facilitate speedy global economic recovery. China has withstood this tough test. We hope our experience will be a source of confidence and strength for the global fight against COVID-19.
Distinguished Guests,
At the high-level meetings marking the 75th anniversary of the United Nations (UN), President Xi Jinping, with an all-round consideration of this changing world, articulated China's firm commitment to multilateralism, the path of peaceful development, and the building of a community with a shared future for mankind. He announced a host of proposals and initiatives aimed at tackling global challenges and advancing common development, and shared his vision on how to carry forward multilateralism and strengthen global governance in a post-COVID era. China believes that:
Pursuing shared benefits through cooperation and consultation is a fundamental principle. Countries, regardless of their size, wealth and strength, are all equal members of the international community. They have equal rights to develop, to pursue a better life, and to participate in world affairs. The global governance system must be built by all countries. No country should pursue selfish interest or seek unilateral dominance. It is important to increase the voice and representation of developing countries, ensure that countries enjoy rights and opportunities while being bound by rules on an equal footing, and different countries, classes and groups can share the dividends of global governance.
Safeguarding international rules and order is the cornerstone. International relations must not be allowed to return to the law of the jungle. Relations among countries and their interests should only be regulated by mechanisms and rules. A coherent global governance structure should be rooted in respecting sovereign equality, non-interference in domestic affairs, peaceful settlement of disputes and other basic norms of international relations. All must oppose hegemonism and power politics, reject unilateral sanctions and long-arm jurisdiction, and jointly uphold international fairness and justice.
Commitment to openness and connectivity is the right direction. Both history and reality tell us that openness leads to progress while seclusion brings backwardness, and economic globalization is an unstoppable trend of the times. To address deficiencies in global economic governance requires discarding all forms of protectionism, safeguarding the WTO-centered multilateral trading system, increasing trade and investment liberalization and facilitation, and enhancing openness and connectivity for mutual benefits.
Forging a sense of a community with a shared future provides the right guidance forward. Humankind lives on this one and only planet. Countries, increasingly interdependent in an indivisible community, need to look out for each other and work in solidarity. Countries must discard ideological biases, and transcend ethnic and cultural differences. They should uphold the values of peace, development, equity, justice, democracy and freedom shared by all of us, and jointly look after our home planet and make it better.
Distinguished Guests,
China will continue to hold high the banner of peace, development, cooperation and mutual benefits, uphold the vision of a community with a shared future for mankind, and keep to the purpose of our foreign policy for maintaining world peace and promoting common development. We will share experience, offer solutions, and contribute to the efforts in resolving prominent issues in the world, so as to bring more stability to the increasingly fluid international landscape and inject more positive energy to a global economy on the verge of recession.
China will continue to take an active part in international cooperation against COVID-19. We will continue to share useful experience with other countries, and do our best to help countries and regions in need of stronger capacity. We will continue to give full support to WHO in leading the global response and advance the building of a global community of health for all. We will deliver on our commitment of making successfully developed vaccines a global public good to enhance their accessibility and affordability in developing countries, and contribute to an early, full victory against the virus across the world.
China will continue to firmly defend multilateralism. We are not selective with multilateralism. Instead, we embrace the principle of safeguarding the UN-centered international system, the international order underpinned by international law, and UN's central role in international affairs. We will take an active part in the international efforts to make global governance more inclusive and multilateral mechanisms more effective, so as to meet the real needs of tackling global challenges.
China will continue to safeguard world peace and stability. We will adhere steadfastly to the path of peaceful development, and foster friendship, cooperation and partnership with other countries on the basis of the Five Principles of Peaceful Co-existence. We will continue to advocate the vision of common, comprehensive, cooperative and sustainable security. We will facilitate peace talks on flare-ups as best as we can. We will actively tackle non-traditional security threats such as climate change, cyber security and terrorism. We will remain committed to pursuing greater democracy in international relations and fairness and justice in the world.
China will continue to promote global sustainable development. We will achieve the goal of building a moderately prosperous society in all respects and win the battle against poverty by the end of this year. Extreme poverty will be eradicated for the first time in China's history. While working hard toward our own goals, we also empathize with the rest of the world. We will continue to implement in real earnest the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, deepen international cooperation on agriculture, poverty alleviation, climate change, women and children and bio-diversity, and join hands with other countries in the pursuit of common development.
China will continue to vigorously promote opening-up for mutual benefits. Striving for opening-up and win-win is the fundamental strategy of our diplomatic work. At the opening ceremony of the third China International Import Expo, President Xi Jinping underlined China's commitment to expanding all-round opening-up and exploring more efficient ways to connect domestic and foreign markets and share factors of production and resources. The China market will be a market for the world, a market shared by all, and a market accessible to all. This important message was warmly welcomed by the international community. China has decided to foster a new development paradigm with domestic circulation as the mainstay and domestic and international circulations reinforcing each other. This is a logical choice as China's economy enters a new stage with growth primarily driven by domestic consumption. It also reflects the inherent trend in the development of the major economies. As the new paradigm takes shape, the China market will grow in size and capacity, thus providing broader space for countries around the world to access the market and share the opportunities. With domestic and international circulations reinforcing each other and the mutual opening-up between China and the world, fresh impetus will be injected to both the Chinese and world economy.
Distinguished Guests,
President Xi Jinping pointed out that the world has entered a phase of change and transformation, and that humanity now stands at a new crossroads. The world today needs multilateralism, solidarity and cooperation more than ever before. Every choice we make, and every action we take today, will shape the world tomorrow. Let us work together to build a community with a shared future for mankind, and stride forward on the path of multilateralism and cooperation. Once again, I wish this meeting a full success!
Thank you!"
"Beijing, 4 November 2020
Your Excellencies Heads of State and Government,
Your Excellencies Heads of International Organizations,
Your Excellencies Heads of Delegations,
Distinguished Guests,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Dear Friends,
With concerted efforts of all parties, the third China International Import Expo (CIIE) is now open. At the outset, let me extend, on behalf of the government and people of China as well as in my own name, a hearty welcome to all the distinguished guests. To the many old and new friends, I give you my warm greetings and best regards.
This year's CIIE is convened at a special time. COVID-19, which caught us all by surprise, has hit countries hard and dealt a heavy blow to the world economy. As scheduled and confident in the containment protocols that have been put in place, China is hosting this global trade event. It demonstrates China's sincere desire to share its market opportunities with the world and contribute to global economic recovery.
Over the past three years since its inception, the CIIE has enabled exhibits to become traded goods and exhibitors to spot more investment opportunities. It has facilitated an exchange of new and creative ideas, and better connected China and the wider world. Acting as a major platform for international procurement, for investment promotion, for cultural exchange and for open cooperation, the CIIE is now an international public good for the world to share.
This year, the CIIE has drawn a large number of businesses around the globe. The exhibition area has expanded by nearly 30,000 square meters. A zone on public health and epidemic prevention has been added, which alone has attracted many Fortune Global 500 corporations and leading firms in relevant sectors. With both online and offline exhibitions arranged and thoughtful preparations made in every way, I am confident that the third CIIE will be a safe, exciting and successful expo for all of you.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
Notwithstanding COVID-19, the pace of opening up in China has continued to quicken this year. The measures I announced at last year's CIIE have been implemented to the full. China has taken steady steps to expand imports, with imports of goods and services outpacing the global average over the past year. The items on the national negative list for foreign investment have been cut from 40 to 33. The number of pilot free trade zones has increased from 18 to 21. The Master Plan for the Development of Hainan Free Trade Port and the Implementation Plan for Further Reform and Opening-up in Shenzhen have both been released and taken effect. Good progress has been registered in concluding high-standard free trade agreements, developing demonstration zones for creative promotion of import trade, protecting intellectual property rights, and advancing high-quality Belt and Road cooperation.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
The COVID-19 pandemic has added to the instability and uncertainty facing the world economy. However, looking back at history, humanity has always been able to forge ahead despite risks, disasters and headwinds, and humanity shall and will continue to stride forward.
The overwhelming trend for countries to move toward openness and cooperation remains unchanged. All countries need to come together to jointly tackle risks and challenges, strengthen cooperation and communication, and embrace greater openness.
- We need to commit to mutual opening up that features shared benefits. COVID-19 is a stark reminder that all countries are in a community with a shared future. No one can stay immune in a major crisis. Solidarity and cooperation is the right choice to make in meeting challenges. We must uphold the principle of mutually beneficial cooperation. We need to build trust rather than second-guess each other; we need to join hands rather than throw punches at each other; and we need to consult rather than slander each other. Bearing in mind the common interests that bind us all, countries need to work together to make economic globalization more open, inclusive and balanced for the benefits of all.
- We need to commit to mutual opening up that features shared responsibilities. Both history and reality tell us that when confronted by risks and challenges, countries must work together as partners, with each shouldering its due responsibility. It is ill-advised to pursue unilateral dominance, or choose to hurt others' interests, which diminishes one's own interests. Big countries need to lead by example, major economies need to act on sound principles, and developing countries need to play an active part in promoting opening up and sharing responsibilities. It is by working together that we will advance common development of our world.
- We need to commit to mutual opening up that features shared governance. Faced with the challenges brought by economic globalization, we must not allow unilateralism or protectionism to undermine the international order and international rules. Rather, we need to reform the global economic governance system in a constructive way to better seize opportunities and avoid harm. Guided by a vision of global governance based on extensive consultation, joint contribution and shared benefits, we need to safeguard the multilateral trading system with the World Trade Organization (WTO) as its cornerstone, improve the rules of global economic governance, and build an open world economy.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
The just concluded Fifth Plenary Session of the 19th CPC Central Committee adopted an overall plan for China's development in the coming 14th five-year plan period. Very soon, China will achieve the goal of finishing building a moderately prosperous society in all respects and eradicating poverty. From next year on, China will begin a new journey toward fully building a modern socialist country. It will mark a new stage for China's development. Answering to the changing circumstances and new requirements, we have set out to foster a new development paradigm with domestic circulation as the mainstay and domestic and international circulations reinforcing each other. What we envision is not a development loop behind closed doors, but more open domestic and international circulations. We will do so not only to meet China's own development needs but also for the greater benefit of people in all countries.
China has a population of 1.4 billion and a middle-income group that exceeds 400 million. The vastly huge China market is the most promising in the world. Total import into China is estimated to top 22 trillion US dollars in the coming decade. Chinese manufacturing now makes an important and positive part of the global industrial and supply chains. Demand on the massive domestic market in China will continue to unleash endless potential for innovation.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
COVID-19 has put all countries through a tough test. In the case of China, our people have exerted extraordinary efforts and made major strategic gains in controlling the coronavirus. The Chinese economy is steadily picking up, as evidenced by the positive overall growth in the first three quarters, including a 0.7% growth in foreign trade and a 5.2% rise in paid-in foreign investment. This is a major contribution to economic recovery in the world. What's more, out of solidarity with other countries in fighting COVID-19, the Chinese people have shared full experience and done our best to assist the international community. As of 20th October, China had provided assistance to 150 countries and seven international organizations and exported over 179 billion masks, 1.73 billion protective suits, and 543 million testing kits. This is how China has acted out its responsibility.
Going forward, China will stay committed to openness, cooperation and unity for win-win results. We will steadfastly expand all-round opening up and explore more efficient ways to connect domestic and foreign markets and share factors of production and resources. Our aim is to turn the China market into a market for the world, a market shared by all, and a market accessible to all. This way, we will be able to bring more positive energy to the global community.
First, China will nurture new pacesetters of opening up. Over the past seven years, in pilot free trade zones in China, a lot has been done to break new ground and bold experiments have produced remarkable results. The Hainan Free Trade Port has been kicked off to a good start. China will continue to leverage the pioneering role of pilot free trade zones and free trade ports in steering opening up. We will introduce a negative list for cross-border services trade and open still wider in areas like the digital economy and the Internet. We will deepen reform and innovation in trade and investment liberalization and facilitation, and make institutional innovations to support an open economy of higher standards.
Second, China will pursue creative ways to grow foreign trade. Through the CIIE and other platforms of opening up, we will continue to support companies from around the world in exploring business opportunities in China. We will tap into the growth potential of foreign trade with a view to boosting growth in international trade and the world economy. China will encourage cross-border e-commerce and other new business forms and models to grow even quicker to foster new drivers of foreign trade. China will shorten its catalog of technologies prohibited or restricted from import to create a favorable environment for the free flow of technologies across borders.
Third, China will keep improving its business environment. In the wake of COVID-19, China has adopted a range of pro-business relief policies that apply equally to all companies registered in China. Earlier this year, the Foreign Investment Law and its supporting rules and regulations came into effect, and the negative list on foreign investment was cut still shorter. China will continue to make its foreign-related legal framework more open and transparent, strengthen intellectual property protection, better protect the lawful rights and interests of foreign investors and provide them with more high-quality services to further improve the business environment.
Fourth, China will pursue deeper bilateral, multilateral and regional cooperation. China stands ready to conclude high-standard free trade agreements with more countries in the world. We will work for the early signing of the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) and speed up negotiations on a China-EU investment treaty and a China-Japan-ROK free trade agreement. We look forward to more exchanges and mutual learning with high-standard free trade zones in other parts of the world. China will take an active part in WTO reform and in cooperation at the United Nations, the G20, APEC, BRICS and other fora. China will work with partner countries to promote high-quality Belt and Road cooperation and build a community with a shared future for mankind.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
As we often say in China, "Those who do not make their way to the Great Wall are not true heroes." Now, at a time of formidable challenges facing the world economy, it is imperative that we bolster confidence and courage to tide over this difficult period together. China will join hands with all other countries to create opportunities in opening up, tackle difficult problems through cooperation, and foster a brighter future for humanity.
Thank you!"
"Beijing, 1 October 2020
Mr. President,
Colleagues,
On the occasion of the 75th anniversary of the founding of the United Nations, we gather to commemorate the 25th anniversary of the Fourth World Conference on Women held in Beijing. The aim is to promote gender equality and women's development around the world. I am glad to address this event and I wish this high-level meeting a full success.
Women are creators of human civilization and drivers of social progress, and they have made extraordinary achievements across all fields of endeavor. In the ongoing fight against COVID-19, female medical and epidemic control workers, researchers, community workers and volunteers over the world, braving danger and working around the clock, have fought at the front line of the battle. With their dedication and ingenuity, they have written heroic epics of saving people and protecting lives. They truly deserve our admiration.
In China, at the height of the battle against COVID-19, more than 40,000 health workers from across the country rushed to Hubei province, which was the hardest hit by the virus, and two-thirds of them were women. Among them was a nurse from Guangdong province who had not yet reached the age of 20. Answering a reporter's question of whether she was too young to help others, she said, "The moment I put on the protective suit, I am not a kid anymore." Those words moved the whole nation. In fact, many women medical workers in China, like this girl, and in their tens of thousands, have taken on the virus bravely by putting themselves in harm's way. Their courage and hard work have shown the very best of the medical profession. Their devotion and sacrifice have kept the nation intact through difficult times.
Mr. President,
Over the past 25 years, the powerful message of the Fourth World Conference on Women held in Beijing has unleashed many positive changes. The social status of women is significantly higher. Increasingly women are playing an important role of "supporting half of the sky". Indeed, gender equality and women's empowerment are now important goals of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
On the other hand, the spread of COVID-19 worldwide has taken a heavy toll on economy, employment and people's life, and has brought greater challenges to women. As Secretary-General Guterres said, the gains made in gender equality over the past decades are at risk of being rolled back. In both containing COVID-19 and promoting post-COVID economic and social recovery, it is particularly important that we address the special needs of women and deliver on the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action. To this end, China calls for taking the following steps:
First, we need to minimize the impact of COVID-19 on women.
We need to pay special attention to the health, social and psychological needs and working environment of frontline women medical workers. We also need to place the protection of women's and girls' rights and interests high on the agenda of both public health and economic reopening. In particular, we need to create more job opportunities for women and crack down on violations of women's rights and interests. We need to improve social services, with priority given to special groups such as pregnant and postnatal women, and children. Special care may be given to women in difficulty such as those in poverty, old age or with disabilities. Efforts must be made to enhance benefit for women, address their concerns, and deliver results for their well-being.
Second, we need to strive for genuine gender equality.
While posing unprecedented challenges, COVID-19 also presents an opportunity for us to draw lessons from it and reshape the future. Global development needs to be placed on a course that is more equal, inclusive and sustainable, and women's development is an important criterion to gauge its progress. Protection of women's rights and interests must become the commitment at the national level. As we pursue post-COVID recovery, we may create new opportunities for women to participate in decision-making and be more involved in national, economic, cultural and social governance. We need to eliminate prejudice, discrimination and violence against women and make gender equality a social norm and moral imperative observed by all.
Third, we need to ensure that women advance at the forefront of our times.
In the 21st century, the aspiration for a better life will be meaningless without all-round progress in women's development; this aspiration can only be achieved when women contribute even greater vision and strength to this cause. In pursuing development, we need to protect women's rights and interests and improve their lives, and ensure that women's development goes hand in hand with economic and social development. We need to remove barriers and create an enabling environment in which women are motivated, their creativity is unleashed to the full, and they truly feel satisfied, happy and secure. We need to fully leverage the role of the government and mobilize all stakeholders to support women and help them live their lives to the full.
Fourth, we need to enhance global cooperation in advancing women's development.
Without a peaceful and stable global environment and sustainable development, and without leveraging the UN's key coordinating role, the cause of women's development cannot move forward. We support the UN in making women's development a priority. Our Organization should do more, both to eliminate violence, discrimination, poverty and other old problems and to address new challenges such as bridging the gender digital divide, so as to make women-related targets early harvest results of its 2030 Agenda. We also need to support greater representation of women in the UN system. UN Women should expand its toolkit for promoting gender equality and improve the global roadmap for women's development.
Colleagues,
Equality between men and women is a basic state policy in China. We have put in place a legal system comprising over 100 laws and regulations for fully protecting women's rights and interests. As a matter of fact, China is recognized by the World Health Organization as one of the ten fast-track countries in women's and children's health. In China, the gender gap in compulsory education has been largely closed. Women account for over 40 percent of the country's workforce, and more than half of China's Internet start-up businesses are set up by women.
Five years ago, I proposed a Global Leaders' Meeting on Gender Equality and Women's Empowerment. Now, the host of proposals I put forward at the meeting for advancing global cooperation in this endeavor have all been implemented. And China is prepared to do even more to support the global cause of women's development. In the coming five years, China will donate another 10 million dollars to UN Women. China will continue to fund the UNESCO Prize for Girls' and Women's Education to support this global effort. China also proposes the convening in 2025 of another Global Leaders' Meeting on Gender Equality and Women's Empowerment.
Mr. President,
We still have a long way to go and need to work real hard to build a world in which women are free from discrimination as well as a society of inclusive development. Let us work together and redouble efforts to promote gender equality and advance the global cause of women's development.
Thank you."
"Dear Colleagues,
It is my great pleasure to attend the CICA Special Ministerial Meeting via video conference. Given the complex changes taking place in our region and around the world, it is all the more necessary and important for us, members of the CICA family, to have timely communication, build consensus, map out cooperation and chart the course forward.
Since assuming the chairmanship in September 2018, Tajikistan has successfully held the Fifth Summit in Dushanbe and other activities, contributing greatly to CICA's development. China commends Tajikistan's excellent work, and extends warm congratulations to Kazakhstan for taking over the chairmanship. Together with other member states, China will support the new Chair in further advancing CICA's development. We are confident that with the full commitment and able stewardship of Kazakhstan, this important regional security mechanism will do an even better job in fulfilling its due responsibilities and achieving greater progress in its cooperation.
Colleagues,
Countries in Asia may have different history, national realities, social systems, cultures and traditions, and are faced with multiple hotspot issues, disagreements and differences. Yet, the broader common visions and common interests have enabled us to rise above differences, enhance solidarity, build mutual trust and expand cooperation.
We all believe in diversity and equality of civilizations.
As descendants of ancient Asian civilizations, we see the world as diverse, civilizations as colorful, and all countries as equals. No civilization is superior to others, and no one should intentionally provoke clashes among civilizations. Countries should transcend differences in ideologies and social systems. We should all respect, appreciate and learn from each other, and help each other succeed.
We all shoulder historic responsibilities of rejuvenation and development.
Faster development, better lives for the people and national rejuvenation are the shared aspiration of all countries in Asia. We need to support each other in exploring a development path suited to our national realities, share governance experience, and foster greater synergy in our development strategies to achieve high-quality development.
We all call for peaceful solutions to disputes.
The interwoven traditional and non-traditional security threats means no country can stay safe all by itself. We should value amity and cooperation, and pursue good-neighborliness and partnership with our neighbors. We all stand against the willful use of force, power politics and interference. And we are all committed to exerting Asian wisdom to seek durable political solutions through equal dialogue.
We all uphold the value of multilateralism.
We support the UN-centered multilateral system, follow the basic norms governing international relations based on the purposes and principles of the UN Charter, and recognize the important roles of the UN and its specialized agencies in international affairs. This is an area of greatest consensus of all CICA members, and has guided our efforts in pursuing regional and sub-regional cooperation and working for a multi-polar world and democracy in international relations.
Colleagues,
CICA is Asia's largest and most representative security forum with the greatest number of participants. Facing the once-in-a-century changes and a global pandemic, CICA should rise to the challenge, fulfill its historical mission, and make new efforts toward a secure, stable, prosperous, open and inclusive Asia featuring mutual respect, mutual trust, cooperation and innovation. Kazakhstan, as the initiator of CICA, has a special role to play. Here, I would like to propose four points.
First, we need to come together to defeat COVID-19.
To suppress the novel coronavirus remains the immediate priority. We must strengthen solidarity, firmly support the WHO in playing its leading and coordinating role, and oppose politicizing the issue and stigmatizing specific countries. China will continue to support other countries' anti-epidemic efforts as much as it can, through closer cooperation on supplies, experience sharing, and vaccine development, in order to defeat the virus at an early date.
Second, we need to promote strategic trust to maintain peace and stability.
Given the significant rise in tensions and confrontation in the international situation, we must stay highly alert, and firmly oppose actions to instigate and engineer a so-called "new Cold War". Countries should strengthen communication and dialogue to build up and consolidate strategic trust. We should continue to advocate and act on the new vision of common, comprehensive, cooperative and sustainable security, and facilitate political settlement of hotspot issues to play our due role in promoting peace and stability in our region and beyond.
Third, we need to pursue mutual benefit to achieve common development.
We should continue to synergize development strategies, leverage our strong complementarities, and advance high-quality Belt and Road cooperation. One of the priorities for now is to reopen economies in an orderly way, open more "fast tracks" and "green lanes" to facilitate the flow of people and goods so as to bring business and life back to normal. China is shifting to a new development paradigm featuring "dual circulations", with domestic circulation as the mainstay and domestic and international circulations reinforcing each other. This aims to make the Chinese economy even more open, efficient and sustainable. In this process, we are willing to share development opportunities with fellow Asian countries for common development.
Fourth, we need to uphold multilateralism to defend international equity and justice.
The 75th anniversary of the UN is a significant occasion for us to renew our commitment to multilateralism and oppose unilateralism and bullying; to uphold the authority and role of the UN, defend the international law and norms governing international relations, and safeguard the legitimate development rights and interests of all countries; and to further improve and strengthen the global governance system, and promote a more equitable and reasonable international order.
Colleagues,
Speaking at the high-level meeting to commemorate the 75th anniversary of the UN and the General Debate of the 75th Session of the UN General Assembly, President Xi Jinping articulated China's firm support for the UN and for the multilateral system. China will continue to work with fellow Asian countries for a new type of international relations featuring mutual respect, fairness, justice and win-win cooperation, and for a community with a shared future for mankind. Together, let's make our due contribution to peace and development in Asia and beyond.
We are confident that our concerted efforts will see us through the difficulties and challenges; we will bring the coordination and trust between Asian countries to a new level, and usher in an even brighter future for our ancient continent.
Thank you."
"Mr. President,
Colleagues,
This year marks the 75th anniversary of the victory in the World Anti-Fascist War and the founding of the United Nations (UN). Yesterday, the high-level meeting to commemorate the 75th anniversary of the UN was held. The meeting was a significant one, as it reaffirmed our abiding commitment to the purposes and principles of the UN Charter on the basis of reviewing the historical experience and lessons of the World Anti-Fascist War.
Mr. President,
We humans are battling COVID-19, a virus that has ravaged the world and has kept resurging. In this fight, we have witnessed the efforts of governments, dedication of medical workers, exploration of scientists, and perseverance of the public. People of different countries have come together. With courage, resolve and compassion which lit the dark hour, we have confronted the disaster head on. The virus will be defeated. Humanity will win this battle!
- Facing the virus, we should put people and life first. We should mobilize all resources to make a science-based and targeted response. No case should be missed and no patient should be left untreated. The spread of the virus must be contained.
- Facing the virus, we should enhance solidarity and get this through together. We should follow the guidance of science, give full play to the leading role of the World Health Organization, and launch a joint international response to beat this pandemic. Any attempt of politicizing the issue or stigmatization must be rejected.
- Facing the virus, we should adopt comprehensive and long-term control measures. We should reopen businesses and schools in an orderly way, so as to create jobs, boost the economy, and restore economic and social order and vitality. The major economies need to step up macro policy coordination. We should not only restart our own economies, but also contribute to global recovery.
- Facing the virus, we should show concern for and accommodate the need of developing countries, especially African countries. The international community needs to take timely and robust measures in such fields as debt relief and international assistance, ensure the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and help these countries overcome their difficulties.
Seventy-five years ago, China made historic contributions to winning the World Anti-Fascist War and supported the founding of the United Nations. Today, with the same sense of responsibility, China is actively involved in the international fight against COVID-19, contributing its share to upholding global public health security. Going forward, we will continue to share our epidemic control practices as well as diagnostics and therapeutics with other countries, provide support and assistance to countries in need, ensure stable global anti-epidemic supply chains, and actively participate in the global research on tracing the source and transmission routes of the virus. At the moment, several COVID-19 vaccines developed by China are in Phase III clinical trials. When their development is completed and they are available for use, these vaccines will be made a global public good, and they will be provided to other developing countries on a priority basis. China will honor its commitment of providing US$2 billion of international assistance over two years, further international cooperation in such fields as agriculture, poverty reduction, education, women and children, and climate change, and support other countries in restoring economic and social development.
Mr. President,
The history of development of human society is a history of our struggles against all challenges and difficulties and our victories over them. At present, the world is battling the COVID-19 pandemic as it goes through profound changes never seen in a century. Yet, peace and development remain the underlying trend of the times, and people everywhere crave even more strongly for peace, development and win-win cooperation. COVID-19 will not be the last crisis to confront humanity, so we must join hands and be prepared to meet even more global challenges.
First, COVID-19 reminds us that we are living in an interconnected global village with a common stake. All countries are closely connected and we share a common future. No country can gain from others' difficulties or maintain stability by taking advantage of others' troubles. To pursue a beggar-thy-neighbor policy or just watch from a safe distance when others are in danger will eventually land one in the same trouble faced by others. This is why we should embrace the vision of a community with a shared future in which everyone is bound together. We should reject attempts to build blocs to keep others out and oppose a zero-sum approach. We should see each other as members of the same big family, pursue win-win cooperation, and rise above ideological disputes and do not fall into the trap of "clash of civilizations". More importantly, we should respect a country's independent choice of development path and model. The world is diverse in nature, and we should turn this diversity into a constant source of inspiration driving human advancement. This will ensure that human civilizations remain colorful and diversified.
Second, COVID-19 reminds us that economic globalization is an indisputable reality and a historical trend. Burying one's head in the sand like an ostrich in the face of economic globalization or trying to fight it with Don Quixote's lance goes against the trend of history. Let this be clear: The world will never return to isolation, and no one can sever the ties between countries. We should not dodge the challenges of economic globalization. Instead, we must face up to major issues such as the wealth gap and the development divide. We should strike a proper balance between the government and the market, fairness and efficiency, growth and income distribution, and technology and employment so as to ensure full and balanced development that delivers benefit to people from all countries, sectors and backgrounds in an equitable way. We should pursue open and inclusive development, remain committed to building an open world economy, and uphold the multilateral trading regime with the World Trade Organization as the cornerstone. We should say no to unilateralism and protectionism, and work to ensure the stable and smooth functioning of global industrial and supply chains.
Third, COVID-19 reminds us that humankind should launch a green revolution and move faster to create a green way of development and life, preserve the environment and make Mother Earth a better place for all. Humankind can no longer afford to ignore the repeated warnings of Nature and go down the beaten path of extracting resources without investing in conservation, pursuing development at the expense of protection, and exploiting resources without restoration. The Paris Agreement on climate change charts the course for the world to transition to green and low-carbon development. It outlines the minimum steps to be taken to protect the Earth, our shared homeland, and all countries must take decisive steps to honor this Agreement. China will scale up its Intended Nationally Determined Contributions by adopting more vigorous policies and measures. We aim to have CO2 emissions peak before 2030 and achieve carbon neutrality before 2060. We call on all countries to pursue innovative, coordinated, green and open development for all, seize the historic opportunities presented by the new round of scientific and technological revolution and industrial transformation, achieve a green recovery of the world economy in the post-COVID era and thus create a powerful force driving sustainable development.
Fourth, COVID-19 reminds us that the global governance system calls for reform and improvement. COVID-19 is a major test of the governance capacity of countries; it is also a test of the global governance system. We should stay true to multilateralism and safeguard the international system with the UN at its core. Global governance should be based on the principle of extensive consultation, joint contribution and shared benefits so as to ensure that all countries enjoy equal rights and opportunities and follow the same rules. The global governance system should adapt itself to evolving global political and economic dynamics, meet global challenges and embrace the underlying trend of peace, development and win-win cooperation. It is natural for countries to have differences. What's important is to address them through dialogue and consultation. Countries may engage in competition, but such competition should be positive and healthy in nature. When in competition, countries should not breach the moral standard and should comply with international norms. In particular, major countries should act like major countries. They should provide more global public goods, take up their due responsibilities and live up to people's expectations.
Mr. President,
Since the start of this year, we, the 1.4 billion Chinese, undaunted by the strike of COVID-19, and with the government and the people united as one, have made all-out efforts to control the virus and speedily restore life and economy to normalcy. We have every confidence to achieve our goals within the set time frame, that is, to finish the building of a moderately prosperous society in all respects, lift out of poverty all rural residents living below the current poverty line, and meet ten years ahead of schedule the poverty eradication target set out in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
China is the largest developing country in the world, a country that is committed to peaceful, open, cooperative and common development. We will never seek hegemony, expansion, or sphere of influence. We have no intention to fight either a Cold War or a hot war with any country. We will continue to narrow differences and resolve disputes with others through dialogue and negotiation. We do not seek to develop only ourselves or engage in a zero-sum game. We will not pursue development behind closed doors. Rather, we aim to foster, over time, a new development paradigm with domestic circulation as the mainstay and domestic and international circulations reinforcing each other. This will create more space for China's economic development and add impetus to global economic recovery and growth.
China will continue to work as a builder of global peace, a contributor to global development and a defender of international order. To support the UN in playing its central role in international affairs, I hereby announce the following steps to be taken by China:
- China will provide another US$50 million to the UN COVID-19 Global Humanitarian Response Plan.
- China will provide US$50 million to the China-FAO South-South Cooperation Trust Fund (Phase III).
- China will extend the Peace and Development Trust Fund between the UN and China by five years after it expires in 2025.
- China will set up a UN Global Geospatial Knowledge and Innovation Center and an International Research Center of Big Data for Sustainable Development Goals to facilitate the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
Mr. President,
Colleagues,
The baton of history has been passed to our generation, and we must make the right choice, a choice worthy of the people's trust and of our times. Let us join hands to uphold the values of peace, development, equity, justice, democracy and freedom shared by all of us and build a new type of international relations and a community with a shared future for mankind. Together, we can make the world a better place for everyone."
"Mr. President,
Colleagues,
Seventy-five years ago, the people of the world, with strenuous struggle and tremendous sacrifice, won the great victory in the World Anti-Fascist War. It was indeed a victory for justice and a victory for the people.
Through the first half of the last century, mankind had suffered the scourge of two devastating wars that brought untold sufferings to the world. It was against such a backdrop that the United Nations (UN) came into being. Over the ensuing 75 years, this Organization has traveled an extraordinary journey. A new chapter has thus opened for peace and development in the world.
- The 75 years since the founding of the UN has seen dramatic progress in human society. We have experienced significant and across-the-board progress in science and technology and in industrial revolution. We are now embracing a new round of even more extensive and substantial scientific and technological revolution and industrial transformation. Globally, social productivity has been unprecedentedly unleashed and boosted. Mankind has never been so powerfully capable to overcome the difficulties we face and change the world we live in.
- The 75 years since the founding of the UN has witnessed profound changes in the international situation. A great many developing countries have gained national liberation and independence. Over a billion people have walked out of poverty. And a population of several billion have embarked on a path toward modernization. These achievements have considerably strengthened the force for peace and development in the world and transformed the international landscape in a most far-reaching way.
- The 75 years since the founding of the UN has been a period of rapid development of multilateralism. Problems facing the world are big and many, and global challenges are on the increase. They should and can only be resolved through dialogue and cooperation. International affairs ought to be addressed through consultation among us all. The understanding that we are all in the same boat is now a popular consensus in the global community.
After the storm comes the rainbow. The UN has stood one test after another and emerged with renewed vigor and vitality. The UN embodies the aspiration of the over seven billion people for a better life, and the UN Charter remains an important guarantee for world peace and development.
Mr. President,
Major changes unseen in a century are taking place in our world. The sudden attack of COVID-19 is a grave test for the entire world. Mankind has entered a new era of interconnectedness, with countries sharing intertwined interests and their future closely linked together. Global threats and global challenges require strong, global responses.
In the face of new realities and challenges, we must do some serious thinking: What kind of UN is needed for the world? How should the Organization play its role in the post-COVID era? Let me share some of my thoughts with you.
First, the UN must stand firm for justice. Mutual respect and equality among all countries, big or small, represents the progress of our times and is the foremost principle of the UN Charter. No country has the right to dominate global affairs, control the destiny of others, or keep advantages in development all to itself. Even less should one be allowed to do whatever it likes and be the hegemon, bully or boss of the world. Unilateralism is a dead end. All need to follow the approach of extensive consultation, joint contribution and shared benefits. All need to come together to uphold universal security, share the fruits of development, and jointly decide on the future of the world. It is imperative that the representation and voice of developing countries be increased so that the UN could be more balanced in reflecting the interests and wishes of the majority of countries in the world.
Second, the UN must uphold the rule of law. The purposes and principles of the UN Charter are the fundamental guidelines for handling international relations. They constitute a cornerstone of stable international order and must be unswervingly kept and upheld. Relations among countries and coordination of their interests must only be based on rules and institutions; they must not be lorded over by those who wave a strong fist at others. Big countries should lead by example in advocating and upholding the international rule of law and in honoring their commitments. There must be no practice of exceptionalism or double standards. Nor should international law be distorted and used as a pretext to undermine other countries' legitimate rights and interests or world peace and stability.
Third, the UN must promote cooperation. To promote cooperation among countries is a founding mission of the UN and an important purpose spelt out in the UN Charter. Cold War mentality, ideological lines or zero-sum game are no solution to a country's own problem, still less an answer to mankind's common challenges. What we need to do is to replace conflict with dialogue, coercion with consultation and zero-sum with win-win. We need to pursue the common interests of all as we each work to safeguard our own interests. We need to expand the converging interests of all and build a big global family of harmony and cooperation.
Fourth, the UN must focus on real action. To put into practice the principle of multilateralism, we must act, not just talk. There must be a cure, not just a therapy. The UN should aim at problem solving and move toward tangible outcomes as it advances security, development and human rights in parallel. In particular, as the UN advances its 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, priority should be given to addressing non-traditional security challenges such as public health; the issue of development should be highlighted in the global macro framework; and there should be a greater emphasis on the promotion and protection of the rights to subsistence and development.
China was the first to sign on the Charter of the United Nations. It is a founding member of the UN and the only developing country that takes a permanent seat on the Security Council. China will continue to be a true follower of multilateralism. It will stay actively engaged in reforming and developing the global governance system. It will firmly uphold the UN-centered international system, firmly uphold the international order underpinned by international law, and firmly defend the UN's central role in international affairs.
Mr. President,
The world now stands at a new historical starting point. Let us renew our firm commitment to multilateralism, work to promote a community with a shared future for mankind, and rally behind the banner of the UN to pursue greater unity and progress.
I thank you."
"Beijing, 8 September 2020
Distinguished Guests,
Colleagues,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
We are meeting under the theme "Seizing Digital Opportunities for Cooperation and Development", a topic that is highly relevant. I hope this seminar will be a prime opportunity for participants, from experts, scholars to business leaders, to look into the future of the digital economy, discuss ways to manage data security risks and promote global governance in the digital domain.
Our world today has come to a historic juncture. A new round of technological revolution and industrial transformation is in the making. Countries face the common task of integrating the digital economy with the real economy, speeding up the shift to new growth drivers, and cultivating new industries and new forms of business.
The global spread of COVID-19 has presented a major test to all countries and to our capacity of global governance. In the course of epidemic response, digital technologies, including artificial intelligence, big data and cloud computing, have made rapid progress. Telecommuting, cloud economy and other new business forms have played an important role in keeping the society running and countering the downward pressure on the economy.
According to the latest statistics, the number of mobile Internet users has reached 3.5 billion around the world, and the digital economy now takes up more than 15 percent of the global GDP. The explosive growth and aggregation of data, like the discovery of oil, is providing a new source of energy for economic growth and industrial transformation.
In the meantime, the mounting risks of data security have put national security, public interests and personal rights at stake, and posed new challenges to global digital governance. The frequent and massive cross-border data flow puts to the test the governance capacity of national governments in terms of governance philosophy, legislative framework and regulatory mechanism. The divergence of data laws and regulations in different countries has pushed up the compliance costs for global businesses. To reduce the deficit in global digital governance, countries face a pressing need to step up communication and coordination, build up mutual trust and deepen cooperation with one another.
Distinguished Guests,
Global issues call for global solutions. As President Xi Jinping pointed out, countries, although varied in national conditions, development stage of Internet and challenges, hold the same desire for promoting digital economy, same interests in tackling cybersecurity challenges and same expectations for strengthened cyberspace governance. Countries need to intensify pragmatic cooperation and embark on a path of mutual trust and collective governance, adding more vitality to a community with a shared future in cyberspace.
China believes that to effectively address the risks and challenges to data security, the following principles must be observed:
First, uphold multilateralism. Pursuing extensive consultation and joint contribution for shared benefits is the right way forward for addressing the deficit in global digital governance. It is important to develop a set of international rules on data security that reflect the will and respect the interests of all countries through broad-based participation. Bent on unilateral acts, a certain country keeps making groundless accusations against others in the name of "clean" network and used security as a pretext to prey on enterprises of other countries who have a competitive edge. Such blatant acts of bullying must be opposed and rejected.
Second, balance security and development. Protecting data security is essential for the sound growth of digital economy. Countries have the right to protect data security according to law. That said, they are also duty-bound to provide an open, fair and non-discriminatory environment for all businesses. Protectionism in the digital domain runs counter to the laws of economic development and the trend of globalization. Protectionist practices undermine the right of global consumers to equally access digital services and will eventually hold back the country's own development.
Third, ensure fairness and justice. Protection of digital security should be based on facts and the law. Politicization of security issues, double standards and slandering others violate the basic norms governing international relations, and seriously disrupt and hamper global digital cooperation and development.
Distinguished Guests,
Digital economy in China has been thriving. There are over 900 million netizens, including a fast growing group of 5G subscribers of 88 million, in China. Digital economy takes up more than one-third of China's GDP. We have clear legal provisions for protecting the lawful rights and interests of citizens and organizations, including data security and personal information. The Chinese government has acted in strict compliance with data security principles. We have not and will not ask Chinese companies to transfer data overseas to the government in breach of other countries' laws.
China has taken a constructive part in multilateral discussions on data security including at the UN, G20, BRICS and the ASEAN Regional Forum, contributing China's input to global digital governance. In view of the new issues and challenges emerging in this field, China would like to propose a Global Initiative on Data Security, and looks forward to the active participation of all parties. Let me briefly share with you the key points of our Initiative:
First, approach data security with an objective and rational attitude, and maintain an open, secure and stable global supply chain.
Second, oppose using ICT activities to impair other States' critical infrastructure or steal important data.
Third, take actions to prevent and put an end to activities that infringe upon personal information, oppose abusing ICT to conduct mass surveillance against other States or engage in unauthorized collection of personal information of other States.
Fourth, ask companies to respect the laws of host countries, desist from coercing domestic companies into storing data generated and obtained overseas in one's own territory.
Fifth, respect the sovereignty, jurisdiction and governance of data of other States, avoid asking companies or individuals to provide data located in other States without the latter's permission.
Sixth, meet law enforcement needs for overseas data through judicial assistance or other appropriate channels.
Seventh, ICT products and services providers should not install backdoors in their products and services to illegally obtain user data.
Eighth, ICT companies should not seek illegitimate interests by taking advantage of users' dependence on their products.
I hope the Chinese initiative will serve as a basis for international rules-making on data security and mark the start of a global process in this area. We look forward to the participation of national governments, international organizations and all other stakeholders, and call on States to support the commitments laid out in the Initiative through bilateral or regional agreements. We are also open-minded to good ideas and suggestions from all sides.
I encourage all of you to speak your mind at today's seminar and pool your insights and suggestions on data security and digital economy. By working together, we can jointly advance global digital governance and build a community with a shared future in the digital world.
In conclusion, I wish the seminar a great success!"
"Beijing, 3 September 2020
Your Highness Prince Faisal bin Farhan Al Saud,
Colleagues,
As we meet, the global pandemic is compounding the once-in-a-century changes unfolding in our world. We are witnessing rising unilateralism, protectionism, and headwinds against globalization, leading to growing uncertainty and volatility in the international landscape.
Multilateralism is the only way forward to meet these challenges. No matter it is preserving peace and security, promoting sustainable development or combating COVID-19 and climate change, we all have to adhere to multilateralism. This requires all of us to uphold the international order underpinned by international law and reinforce the UN-centered international system.
As the world is about to mark the 75th anniversary of the UN, China calls for renewed commitment to multilateralism and to the UN. We must come together to advance global governance in the post-COVID-19 era and build a community with a shared future for mankind.
As we speak, COVID-19 is still raging in many parts of the world and some countries are seeing a rebound of the virus and even a looming second wave. We must all stay vigilant. At the same time, we face the pressing task of restoring global growth, for which the flow of goods and people must be resumed as soon as possible. Our meeting's focus on facilitating international movements and border management is therefore highly relevant and timely. To this end, China would like to share the following proposals.
First, we need to facilitate travel. On the basis of guaranteeing health and safety, we need to gradually expand orderly people-to-people exchanges.
To this end, we will need policy coordination and new cooperation mechanisms. China has opened up fast lanes for cross-border movement of essential commercial and skilled personnel with the ROK, Germany, Singapore, Indonesia and several other countries, which have functioned well.
China proposes that the existing bilateral travel bubbles be upgraded to a multilateral network. It will allow commercial and chartered flights to be scheduled more efficiently and rationally. It will also increase the flow of people and goods between the countries involved.
Second, we need to collaborate in controlling risks. China proposes enhanced information sharing between countries on epidemic response, and setting up an international mechanism on mutual recognition of COVID-related health certification. Measures like pre-departure nucleic acid testing and mutual recognition of testing results and health codes can lower the risks of cross-border transmission. It is essential that governments remind their citizens to follow the local health protocols after arrival, while the host countries should offer protection to the health and safety of foreign nationals.
Third, we need to smooth out the flow of goods. More green lanes for transporting goods may be set up. To keep industrial and supply chains undisrupted, China has made customs clearance more efficient by improving border port infrastructure and digitized clearance procedures. It is also important for countries to lower tariff and non-tariff barriers, lift unnecessary export restrictions, and explore the feasibility of zero-tariff treatment for crucial medical supplies.
To advance cooperation in the above-mentioned areas, China would like to launch, together with other members, an initiative on facilitating cross-border flow of people and goods. Specific proposals include running a workshop on border management and international travel in the near future; designating focal points for closer communication and coordination; and setting up an ad hoc platform to synergize the existing bilateral and regional arrangements for international movements. China looks forward to active participation by other G20 members in these proposals.
The G20 countries are major economies in the world. Collectively, we account for 85 percent of global GDP and over 80 percent of international trade. We are also among each other's biggest trading partners. If the G20 leads the efforts with closer cooperation, this will not just help restore our own growth but is also conducive to revitalizing the global economy.
Colleagues,
Faced with a pandemic unseen in a century, we G20 countries must strengthen solidarity and cooperation, particularly on the following fronts:
A pressing priority is to speed up vaccine research, production and distribution to build a firewall against the virus. The G20 countries must take the lead in making the vaccines accessible and affordable, especially for the least developed countries and high-risk groups. The coordinating role of the World Health Organization should be exerted in this regard to form greater synergy between the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization (Gavi), the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI) and other mechanisms.
China is working with 11 countries on phase-three clinical trials of COVID-19 vaccines. When available, China will share the vaccines with other countries through various channels. As pledged by President Xi Jinping, China will make its COVID-19 vaccine a global public good, and work with other countries to build a community of health for all.
Digital economy has displayed unique strengths during the COVID-19 crisis. Looking ahead to the post-COVID era, we need to encourage the growth of new industries and new business forms and models, and unlock the potential of digital economy. Data security is an issue of shared interest for countries around the world. China is actively considering putting forward an initiative on data security. We call on all parties to communicate and coordinate in a constructive way as we work to ensure the secure and orderly cross-border flow of data. We need to work together to build an open, fair and non-discriminatory business environment, and maintain the supply chain security of global ICT products and services, for everyone to benefit from digital economy.
We need to give particular attention to the plight of developing countries and step up support for those hardest hit by the coronavirus and under heavy financial stress, including by further extending the period of debt suspension.
In conclusion, let us strengthen solidarity and partnership, firmly uphold multilateralism, and support Saudi Arabia in exercising the G20 presidency. Together, we will work to ensure a fruitful Riyadh Summit."
"1 September 2020
Distinguished participants,
As we celebrate the 75th anniversary of the United Nations, it is highly relevant to have in-depth discussions under the theme "Strengthening Multilateralism for a Better Future". I wish to congratulate you on the successful opening of the seminar and thank everyone for your participation and contribution.
The UN's founding after the scourge of two world wars was a watershed moment in the contemporary era. The ensuing three quarters of a century has witnessed overall peace and stability, no new world wars and the mitigation of local conflicts. Most nations have come to realize that differences must be settled through dialogue and conflicts resolved through mediation.
The Millennium Development Goals and 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development have re-energized the global development agenda. Billions of people are marching toward modernization and a large number of emerging markets and developing countries have moved into the fast lane of development and progress.
Under the auspices of the UN, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the
International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights
, the
International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights
and the
Declaration on the Right to Development
were adopted. These milestone international human rights instruments underscored the importance of peace, development, cooperation and fairness for the promotion of human rights and contributed to the steady progress of the global human rights cause.
Looking back at history, you will agree with me that the United Nations deserves respect and a big thumbs-up. That being said, we cannot expect the Organization to be a panacea. It still faces a formidable journey ahead to meet the expectation of we the peoples.
Over the past 75 years, the UN has traveled an extraordinary course and forged ahead despite challenges. For the next 75 years, we call on all nations to make concerted efforts to safeguard multilateralism, stand on the right side of development and progress, and bring the work of the UN to a new level.
First, the central role of the UN should be upheld. As the most representative and authoritative inter-governmental organization, the UN shoulders the aspirations of the world for a better future. It has unique strengths and plays an irreplaceable role in world affairs.
In the face of increasingly complex and serious global challenges, no country can stand aloof or deal with them alone. Multilateralism is the only way forward. The UN should and can play a central role in the international system. The world is fraught with great challenges, but if we rally under the UN flag and pull together, there will be no problem that is too big to solve, and the world will embrace a brighter future.
Second, the purposes and principles of the UN Charter should be observed. The Charter is the linchpin of the UN and the cornerstone of contemporary international law and international relations. Past experience shows that adherence to the Charter brings tranquility while violation of it is a recipe for turbulence.
At the moment, the world is suffering headwinds against globalization and the rise of unilateralism and bullying. The United States, in particular, has walked out of a number of international organizations and agreements, undermined international law and the basic norms of international relations, and attempted to return the world to Cold War confrontation and conflict. This attempt to turn back the clock of history is doomed to fail.
The world is evolving, but the UN Charter is not outdated and must be faithfully observed. It is important to safeguard national sovereignty and territorial integrity and oppose interference in internal affairs. We must seek peaceful settlements to disputes and oppose the threat or use of force. We must abide by international laws and rules, fulfill international obligations and reject unilateralism and bullying.
Third, peace and development should be pursued. Safeguarding world peace and promoting common development is the sacred mission and bounden duty of the UN. We should bring to bear the instrumental role of the UN and its Security Council in ending violence and maintaining peace, reject Cold War mentality and seek political settlement through dialogue and consultation.
The UN should continue to play a lead role in implementing the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and addressing climate change, advance the Decade of Action of the Sustainable Development Goals and the implementation of the Paris Agreement, and reinforce Member States' efforts to achieve innovative, coordinated, green, open and inclusive development. More support and assistance should be given to developing countries to help them mitigate the impact of COVID-19 and eradicate extreme poverty as early as possible.
Fourth, win-win cooperation should be advocated. We need to take win-win cooperation as a universal principle and seek cooperation that delivers benefits to all. The outdated zero-sum mentality and winner-takes-all approach in state-to-state relations should be abandoned.
Some countries sought to monopolize the right to development. They attempt to rip off the development achievements of other countries, and squeeze the development space of developing countries. These moves which contravene the very spirit embodied by the UN will lead nowhere. The UN should be more democratic, effective and inclusive, where countries, regardless of their size, system and culture, work together and learn from one another as equals. It should not be turned into a wrestling ground between countries, especially between the major ones, in a zero-sum game or confrontation.
Fifth, the vision of building a community with a shared future for mankind should be promoted. At the summit meetings commemorating the 70th anniversary of the UN in 2015, President Xi Jinping expounded on China's proposition on building a community with a shared future for mankind, which resonated well with other members of the international community.
To forge this community, the UN has an irreplaceable role to play. It should instill the sense that we all live in the same community and therefore should work together in solidarity and look out for one another in tackling risks and challenges. It should promote partnerships at the regional and global levels and envision a common goal of building an open, inclusive, clean and beautiful world that enjoys lasting peace, universal security and common prosperity.
The global pandemic of COVID-19 has compounded the once-in-a-century changes unfolding in our world. It has affected every aspect of our life and reminds us once again that the wellbeing and future of all countries are interconnected.
It is time we make a choice: choose solidarity over division, cooperation over confrontation, and sharing responsibilities over deflecting them to others.
Ultimately, humanity will prevail over the virus. The world may be changed because of the pandemic. Yet, peace and development are still the order of the day; cooperation and mutual benefit will remain the irreversible trend; and history will march forward despite all setbacks.
Distinguished guests,
As the world's largest developing country and a permanent member of the UN Security Council, China embraces the lofty ideals of the UN by contributing to humanity's cause of peace and development.
-China has been a promoter of world peace. Since the founding of the People's Republic, China has never provoked a war or occupied an inch of others' land.
We have codified our commitment to peaceful development into China's Constitution. We have never engaged in any invasion, territorial expansion or sought any sphere of influence.
China takes pride and has full confidence in its own development path, but we also respect the development paths of other countries and have no interest in ideological confrontation or exporting our system to others.
We want to learn from all the fine achievements of human civilization and develop friendship and cooperation with all countries on the basis of the Five Principles of Peaceful Co-existence.
China does not provoke trouble, but we will not flinch in the face of provocations. We will defend China's sovereignty and dignity, uphold China's legitimate rights and interests, and safeguard international fairness and justice.
-China has been a contributor to global development. Thanks to more than forty years of reform and opening-up, China has met the basic needs of the 1.4 billion Chinese people. By the end of this year, we will have lifted all rural population living under the current poverty line out of poverty and completed the building of a moderately prosperous society. This is a long-cherished dream coming true for the Chinese nation and a major contribution to human development.
China will continue to pursue a win-win strategy of opening-up and share development opportunities with the rest of the world. We will not relent in our pursuit of reform and will open still wider to the rest of the world.
China's effective COVID-19 response and head start in business reopening presents us with a good opportunity to promote an open economy at a higher level globally and foster a new dual-cycle development architecture at home, with the domestic cycle as the mainstay and with domestic and international development reinforcing each other. As a manufacturing powerhouse and a major market, China will contribute to the recovery of the global economy and bring new development opportunities to the rest of the world.
-China has been a defender of the international order. China is one of the founding nations of the UN and the first country to put its signature on the UN Charter. China is firmly committed to safeguarding the UN-centered global governance system, the basic norms of international relations underpinned by the purposes and principles of the UN Charter, and the authority and stature of the UN. We must firmly uphold the central role of the UN in international affairs. China joined nearly all international treaties and agreements, and has faithfully fulfilled its international obligations and strictly honored its international commitments.
-China has been a provider of public goods. China has and will continue to shoulder international responsibilities commensurate with its capabilities. China has done what it can to help other developing countries pursue independent and sustainable development. The Belt and Road Initiative proposed by President Xi has evolved into the world's most popular public good and biggest cooperation platform.
China supports the work of the UN. It is now the second largest contributor to the UN's regular budget and peacekeeping assessment, and the largest contributor of peacekeepers among P5 countries. To promote international cooperation against COVID-19, China has launched the biggest global humanitarian operation in its history. It has provided assistance to over 150 countries and international organizations and ensured stable global production and supply of anti-epidemic materials. COVID-19 vaccine development and deployment in China, when available, will be made a global public good. This will be China's contribution to ensuring vaccine accessibility and affordability in developing countries. We will honor this commitment with concrete actions.
Five years ago, President Xi announced a host of major initiatives in support of the work of the UN at the summit meetings commemorating the 70th anniversary of its founding. All these initiatives have been delivered on the ground.
China has registered a standby force of 8,000 troops and a police squad of 300 troops for UN peacekeeping missions, and elevated six of its standby contingents to Level Three in the UN Peacekeeping Capability Readiness System. As such, China now has the biggest standby force and most varieties of contingents among all UN member states.
The China-UN Peace and Development Fund has provided a total funding of US$67.7 million to over 80 projects. These projects have facilitated the UN's efforts in different areas like peacekeeping, counter-terrorism, energy, agriculture, infrastructure and education.
China has assisted other developing countries with 180 poverty reduction projects, 118 agricultural cooperation projects, 178 trade facilitation projects, 103 projects on ecological conservation and climate change, 134 hospitals and clinics and 123 educational and vocational training institutes. The South-South Cooperation Assistance Fund has supported over 80 projects in more than 30 developing countries, injecting impetus for global sustainable development.
China has donated US$10 million to UN Women, making it the largest contributor among developing countries. China has completed 133 health projects for women and children and invited over 30,000 women from developing countries for training programs. By doing so, China has made important contribution to women's development in the world.
In the new context, China will continue to shoulder its responsibilities and make its contribution as a major country, provide more global public goods and play its part to promote world peace and development. Let us work together to uphold and carry forward multilateralism, renew the commitments of the UN, and strive toward the great goal of building a community with a shared future for mankind.
Thank you."
"Beijing, 24 August 2020
Your Excellency Prime Minister Thongloun Sisoulith,
Colleagues,
I am delighted to meet you via video link for the third Lancang-Mekong Cooperation (LMC) Leaders' Meeting. I wish to thank our co-chair the Lao PDR and Prime Minister Thongloun for the tremendous efforts made for the meeting.
We meet today under the theme of "Enhancing Partnership for Shared Prosperity". President Xi Jinping recently called for making global governance more inclusive, multilateral frameworks more effective and regional cooperation more active. Drinking water from the same river, we, the LMC countries, are close as one family living in a community with a shared future. Enhancing mutually beneficial cooperation is both conducive to our own interests and contributing to others' success, as it will boost our economic and social development and people's well-being, and cement the foundation for regional prosperity and stability.
The Chinese believe that the supreme good is like water; water nurtures all living things without competing with them. The launch of the LMC has been motivated by a river, which is both an important part of our cooperation and an inspiration for the LMC spirit of friendship and mutual benefit.
Over the past four years, the LMC has grown rapidly and entered a period of all-round development, in which notable progress has been made in institution building, strategic planning, financial support and practical cooperation. The LMC has become a new fountain of strength for regional development and delivered real benefits to people of our countries.
We have brought the cooperation mechanisms on water resources onto a fast track. We held the first Ministerial Meeting on Lancang-Mekong Water Resources Cooperation and the first Water Resources Cooperation Forum. China directly provided flood-season hydrological data of the Lancang River to the Mekong countries and offered timely updates on upstream flow changes. Despite its own difficulties, China increased outbound water flow in the drought season to help downstream countries mitigate droughts. Solid cooperation has also been carried out under the Water Resources Cooperation Center, the Environmental Cooperation Center and the Global Center for Mekong River Studies.
We have strengthened economic cooperation and trade ties, which gave a strong boost to our economic growth. Drawing from the special credit line for industrial capacity and equipment manufacturing cooperation, the concessional loans for foreign aid and preferential export buyers' credit, China has supported over 40 major projects including the Siem Reap New International Airport, the Kyaukpyu deep-water port and the Vinh Tan Coal-fired Power Plant. Chinese companies are actively involved in building the Sihanoukville Special Economic Zone, the Rayong Industrial Zone and the Saysettha Development Zone, generating tax revenues and jobs for host countries and achieving mutual benefit.
We have put people first in the LMC and increased their well-being. The LMC Special Fund is heavily invested in improving people's lives and has sponsored over 400 programs in health, education, poverty reduction and women's welfare. The Fund has supported 40,000-plus training opportunities for people in the Mekong countries, bringing out the region's potential of human resources.
Faced with COVID-19 since early this year, we have pulled together and supported each other in combating the virus and reviving regional growth. In the first half of this year, China's trade with and investment in the Mekong countries grew by 8.7% and 33.5% respectively, bucking the trend of global slowdown. Mekong countries saw their agricultural exports to China rise by 21.2% over the same period last year. Tracks are being laid along the China-Laos Railway at a pace of one kilometer per day. Construction of the expressway linking Phnom Penh and Sihanoukville and other key projects has been resumed. The above progress has helped regional countries get their economic and social development back to normal.
Colleagues,
In the context of a fluid and complex international situation and severe shocks to the global and regional economies, we face the common task of sustaining the good momentum of our cooperation to help tackle risks and challenges and achieve shared progress. To this end, China wishes to propose the following:
- We need to take our cooperation in water resources to a new high. The legitimate rights and interests of all countries in developing and utilizing their water resources as appropriate should be fully respected. Meanwhile, we need to accommodate each other's interests and concerns, and advance cooperation by building consensus.
China is ready to provide more help to the best of its ability for the Mekong countries to make better use of water resources. Starting from this year, China will share Lancang River's hydrological data for the whole year with the Mekong countries. China will work with your countries to establish a Lancang-Mekong Water Resources Cooperation Information Sharing Platform to help us better tackle climate change and natural disasters such as floods and droughts.
We need to hold the Ministerial Meeting of Lancang-Mekong Water Resources Cooperation and the Water Resources Cooperation Forum on a regular basis, fully implement the Five-Year Action Plan on Lancang-Mekong Water Resources Cooperation (2018-2022) and deliver the cooperation projects on dam safety and flood early warning to enhance our capacity for integrated river basin management and water resources management.
- We need to expand trade ties and connectivity cooperation. China is ready to further synergize the Belt and Road Initiative with your development strategies for deeper cooperation among us.
The New International Land-Sea Trade Corridor runs through western China and connects Southeast Asia with the Eurasian continent. By harnessing the transportation routes over both land and sea, the Corridor is exerting a positive impact on the interconnected development across different regions. Greater synergy between the LMC and the New Trade Corridor will make trade routes more convenient and enable the leveraging of more resources from western and southwestern China and other ASEAN countries, and thus channel more inputs to the Mekong countries. This will help optimize the allocation of resources, keep industrial and supply chains stable, and spur coordinated development.
China is ready to work with the Mekong countries to fully implement the Co-Chairs' Statement on Cooperation of Synergizing the Lancang-Mekong Cooperation and the New International Land-Sea Trade Corridor adopted at the meeting, and inject new impetus into regional development.
We also need to work toward signing the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) agreement within this year to raise regional economic integration to a higher level and jointly uphold free trade.
We need to ensure the success of the China-Laos and the China-Thailand railways as part of the regional transportation arteries linking the south and the north.
Industrial cooperation should be boosted, including expeditiously drafting the Five-Year Development Plan for LMC Cross-Border Economic Cooperation and intensifying Multi-Nation Multi-Park cooperation.
Financial cooperation should be deepened to provide strong, sustainable financial support for connectivity.
With COVID-19 control as a "new normal", we need to build a network of "fast tracks" and "green lanes" across the region to facilitate the flow of people and goods, and keep industrial and supply chains stable.
The Internet economy buoyed by epidemic control needs should be further developed. We should advance innovation in digital technology and expand digital connectivity to fuel the digital transformation and upgrading of our economy and society.
- We need to deepen cooperation on sustainable development. We need to implement the Three-Year Action Plan on Agricultural Cooperation (2020-2022) at a faster pace and ensure the success of the LMC Bumper Harvest projects. We need to disseminate and share technologies on crop processing and agro-product storage, upgrade the agro-product quality and safety systems, and build agro-industrial parks to strengthen our sub-region's competitiveness in agriculture. China welcomes more quality agro-products, livestock and by-products from Mekong countries.
We also need to expedite the implementation of the Lancang-Mekong Environmental Cooperation Strategy, and step up cooperation to tackle climate change, improve air quality, and protect biodiversity.
- We need to upgrade cooperation on public health. China will set up a special fund for public health under the framework of the LMC Special Fund, and continue to provide material and technical support to Mekong countries to the best of our ability.
Once developed and deployed in China, COVID-19 vaccines will be provided to Mekong countries on a priority basis.
We need to carry out information sharing and joint responses in major public health emergencies, and strengthen cooperation in early warning on communicable diseases. Public health projects such as the Joint Control Action for Tropical Diseases, Materia Medica and Chinese Acupuncture-Moxibustion benefiting Mekong countries will be taken forward.
International solidarity and cooperation is crucial for the global fight against COVID-19. China will work with Mekong countries to support the World Health Organization (WHO) in better playing its role.
- We need to strengthen cooperation on people's livelihood. China will work with Mekong countries to jointly implement projects on disaster prevention and mitigation, sanitation and health in rural areas, and infant and young child nutrition and health to benefit more people and communities. The integrated development of underdeveloped communities and business start-ups in ethnic regions will be promoted through cooperation programs.
We need to revitalize tourism by holding events like the Lancang-Mekong Mayors' Culture and Tourism Forum, exploring flexible ways such as "cloud tourism", and fully capitalizing on our multi-ethnic culture and world heritage sites. This will foster a new format for the growth of tourism alongside regular COVID-19 response.
- We need to uphold the spirit of openness and inclusiveness. We will strengthen exchanges and mutual learning between various cooperation frameworks. The LMC's interaction and cooperation with the Greater Mekong Subregion Economic Cooperation Program (GMS), the Ayeyawady-Chao Phraya-Mekong Economic Cooperation Strategy (ACMECS) and the Mekong River Commission (MRC) will be facilitated, including experience sharing and joint programs. We will actively explore cooperation with Japan, the ROK, the EU and other third parties.
China supports ASEAN centrality in East Asian cooperation. By promoting Lancang-Mekong cooperation, we hope to contribute to ASEAN's community building and deepen the China-ASEAN strategic partnership.
Colleagues,
This year, the Chinese government has scaled up macro policy response to cushion the shock of COVID-19. While going all out to contain the virus, we lost no time in reopening the economy. Our measures to help businesses get through the tough times and reinvigorate the market are paying off.
Thanks to these efforts, we have achieved significant progress in both COVID-19 response and socio-economic development. The economy is steadily recovering. Business activities are picking up month by month. Growth in the second quarter exceeded expectations. Economic structure is improving. The digital and intelligent transformation of industries is notably speeding up. Reform and opening up are further deepening.
Given the strong resilience and latitude of the Chinese economy, and with hard work, we will be able to deliver positive growth for the whole year. China's development will create even more cooperation opportunities for Mekong countries and the rest of the world.
Colleagues,
Running through nearly 5,000 kilometers, the Lancang-Mekong River admits countless streams along the way and nourishes all people living on its banks. To strengthen Lancang-Mekong cooperation requires the same open and inclusive spirit and the combined efforts from all sectors in order to usher in a brighter future for people in the sub-region.
China welcomes our new co-chair Myanmar. We look forward to working with the Mekong countries to deepen and expand Lancang-Mekong cooperation, and provide stronger impetus for the development and prosperity in our sub-region and beyond.
Thank you."
"Beijing, 28 July 2020
Honorable Governors,
Heads of Delegation,
Distinguished Guests,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
On the occasion of the opening of the Fifth Annual Meeting of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB), I wish to extend, on behalf of the government and people of China and in my own name, hearty congratulations on the convening of this meeting and warm greetings to all the delegates representing AIIB members.
In late 2013, I proposed on China's behalf the establishment of the AIIB. The initiative is designed to develop infrastructure and connectivity in Asia and deepen regional cooperation for shared development. On 16 January 2016, the AIIB was officially launched. In the ensuing four years or more, the AIIB has followed the operating model and principles of multilateral development banks and acted as a truly international, rule-based and high-standard institution. It has got off to a good start. From the 57 founding members to today's membership of 102 spanning the six continents of Asia, Europe, Africa, North America, South America and Oceania, the AIIB has grown from strength to strength and provided nearly US$20 billion in infrastructure investment to its members. With more good friends and partners getting on board for higher-quality cooperation, the AIIB has established itself in the world as a new type of professional, efficient and clean multilateral development bank.
In the face of COVID-19, the AIIB has moved promptly to set up a COVID-19 Crisis Recovery Facility to support its members in containing the virus and reviving their economies. This is a typical example of the AIIB's power of action. The global response to COVID-19 has made it clear that mankind rise and fall together in a community with a shared future. Mutual support and cooperation in solidarity are the only way for mankind to overcome crises. To address issues emerging in the course of economic globalization, countries should pursue more inclusive global governance, more effective multilateral institutions, and more robust regional cooperation. In this context, the AIIB may grow into a new platform that promotes development for all its members and facilitates the building of a community with a shared future for mankind. To make that happen, I would like to suggest the following:
First, let us aim at development for all and make the AIIB a new type of multilateral development bank that promotes development across the world. Peace and development remain the call of our times. For countries to develop together, infrastructure connectivity serves as an important physical foundation. The AIIB should commit itself to serving the development needs of all its members and providing more high-quality, low-cost and sustainable investment for both traditional and new types of infrastructure. This will give renewed impetus to economic and social development in Asia and beyond.
Second, let us keep breaking new ground and make the AIIB a new type of development platform progressing with the times. Innovation holds the key to our future. As a new member of the global economic governance system, the AIIB is well-placed to adapt to changes and act accordingly. By constantly updating its development philosophy, business model and institutional governance and by providing flexible and diverse development financing products, the AIIB could help enhance connectivity, promote green development and boost technological advance.
Third, let us strive for excellence and make the AIIB a new type of high-performance institution for international cooperation. High standard and high quality must be ensured in the development of the AIIB. While following international standards and respecting the general law of development, the AIIB should keep in mind the actual development needs of its members, thus creating best practices for international development cooperation.
Fourth, let us stay open and inclusive and make the AIIB a new paradigm of multilateral cooperation. Under the principle of extensive consultation, joint contribution and shared benefits, the AIIB needs to respond to adjustments and changes in the global economic landscape and engage more development partners in cooperation. It needs to provide public goods for our region and beyond, push for regional economic integration, and help make economic globalization more open, inclusive, balanced and beneficial for all.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
China always supports and adheres to multilateralism, and pursues development with the rest of the world in the spirit of openness and mutually-beneficial cooperation. China will continue working with other members to support the AIIB and make it a success, and contribute more to the global response to risks and challenges and the pursuit of shared development. I hope the AIIB will live up to its mission and our expectations and prove worthy of our times.
To conclude, I sincerely wish this Annual Meeting a complete success.
Thank you."
"Beijing, 17 June 2020
Your Excellency President Cyril Ramaphosa,
Your Excellency President Macky Sall,
Your Excellencies Heads of State and Government,
Your Excellency Moussa Faki Mahamat, Chairperson of the African Union Commission,
Your Excellency António Guterres, Secretary-General of the United Nations,
Your Excellency Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, Director-General of the World Health Organization,
At such a critical moment in the global fight against COVID-19, we are gathered together in this Extraordinary China-Africa Summit. Friends old and new are connected via video link to discuss our joint response to COVID-19 and to renew the fraternity between China and Africa. I thank President Ramaphosa and President Sall for joining me in initiating the Summit, and I appreciate the participation of all colleagues present. I also want to send my regards to other African leaders who are not able to be with us today.
The sudden onslaught of COVID-19 has taken a heavy toll on countries around the world, with the loss of several hundred thousand precious lives. Here, I suggest that we observe a moment of silence for those who have tragically passed away due to COVID-19 and express our condolences to their families.
- In the face of COVID-19, China and Africa have withstood the test of a severe challenge. The Chinese people have put up a fierce fight and made enormous sacrifice to bring the situation in China under control. Still, we remain mindful of the risk of a resurgence. In the same spirit, governments and peoples in Africa have put up a united front and, under the effective coordination by the African Union, have taken strong measures to effectively slow the spread of the virus. These are indeed hard-won results.
- In the face of COVID-19, China and Africa have offered mutual support and fought shoulder to shoulder with each other. China shall always remember the invaluable support Africa gave us at the height of our battle with the coronavirus. In return, when Africa was struck by the virus, China was the first to rush in with assistance and has since stood firm with the African people.
- In the face of COVID-19, China and Africa have enhanced solidarity and strengthened friendship and mutual trust. Let me reaffirm China's commitment to its longstanding friendship with Africa. No matter how the international landscape may evolve, China shall never waver in its determination to pursue greater solidarity and cooperation with Africa.
Colleagues,
COVID-19 is still affecting many parts of the world. Both China and Africa face the formidable task of combating the virus while stabilizing the economy and protecting people's livelihoods. We must always put our people and their lives front and center. We must mobilize necessary resources, stick together in collaboration, and do whatever it takes to protect people's lives and health and minimize the fallout of COVID-19.
First, we must stay committed to fighting COVID-19 together. China will continue to do whatever it can to support Africa's response to COVID-19. China will lose no time in following through on the measures I announced at the opening of the World Health Assembly, and continue to help African countries by providing supplies, sending expert teams, and facilitating Africa's procurement of medical supplies in China. China will start ahead of schedule the construction of the Africa CDC headquarters this year. China will work with Africa to fully deliver the health care initiative adopted at the FOCAC Beijing Summit, and speed up the construction of China-Africa Friendship Hospitals and the cooperation between paired-up Chinese and African hospitals. Together, we will build a China-Africa community of health for all. We pledge that once the development and deployment of COVID-19 vaccine is completed in China, African countries will be among the first to benefit.
Second, we must stay committed to enhancing China-Africa cooperation. To cushion the impact of COVID-19, it is important to strengthen Belt and Road cooperation and accelerate the follow-ups to the FOCAC Beijing Summit. Greater priority needs to be given to cooperation on public health, economic reopening, and people's livelihood.
Within the FOCAC framework, China will cancel the debt of relevant African countries in the form of interest-free government loans that are due to mature by the end of 2020. For those African countries that are hardest hit by the coronavirus and are under heavy financial stress, China will work with the global community to give them greater support, by such means as further extending the period of debt suspension, to help them tide over the current difficulty. We encourage Chinese financial institutions to respond to the G20's Debt Service Suspension Initiative (DSSI) and to hold friendly consultations with African countries according to market principles to work out arrangements for commercial loans with sovereign guarantees. China will work with other members of the G20 to implement the DSSI and, on that basis, urge the G20 to extend debt service suspension still further for countries concerned, including those in Africa.
China hopes that the international community, especially developed countries and multilateral financial institutions, will act more forcefully on debt relief and suspension for Africa. China will work with the UN, WHO and other partners to assist Africa's response to COVID-19, and do it in a way that respects the will of Africa.
To help Africa achieve sustainable development is what matters in the long run. China supports Africa in its effort to develop the African Continental Free Trade Area and to enhance connectivity and strengthen industrial and supply chains. China will explore broader cooperation with Africa in such new business forms as digital economy, smart city, clean energy, and 5G to boost Africa's development and revitalization.
Third, we must stay committed to upholding multilateralism. In the face of COVID-19, solidarity and cooperation is our most powerful weapon. China will work with Africa to uphold the UN-centered global governance system and support WHO in making greater contribution to the global COVID-19 response. We oppose politicization and stigmatization of COVID-19, and we oppose racial discrimination and ideological bias. We stand firm for equity and justice in the world.
Fourth, we must stay committed to taking China-Africa friendship forward. The world is undergoing profound changes unseen in a century. Given the new opportunities and challenges we face, closer cooperation between China and Africa is needed, more than ever. On my part, I will stay in close touch with all of you, my colleagues, to consolidate our friendship and mutual trust, support each other on issues involving our respective core interests, and advance the fundamental interests of China and Africa and, for that matter, of all developing countries. This way, we will be able to take the China-Africa comprehensive strategic and cooperative partnership to a greater height.
Colleagues,
At the FOCAC Beijing Summit, we agreed to work together to build an even stronger China-Africa community with a shared future. Today's Extraordinary China-Africa Summit on Solidarity against COVID-19 is our concrete step to deliver the commitment we made at the Beijing Summit and to do our part in the international cooperation against COVID-19. I am convinced that humanity will ultimately defeat the virus, and that the Chinese and African people are poised to embrace better days ahead.
Thank you."
"The Third Session of the 13th National People's Congress held a press conference at the Great Hall of the People on the afternoon of 28 May 2020. Premier Li Keqiang met with Chinese and foreign reporters and answered their questions at the invitation of Spokesperson Mr. Zhang Yesui.
In his opening remarks, Premier Li Keqiang thanked the journalists for covering China's NPC and CPPCC Sessions at an unusual time and despite unusual circumstances. He noted that although the containment protocols require that the press conference be held via a video link, such distance would not impede their communication. In the interest of time, he went straight to questions.
Reuters: The new coronavirus outbreak has devastated economies around the world. Trillions of dollars in fiscal and monetary measures have been pushed out to deal with the fallout. In this year's Government Work Report, China did not set a GDP growth target. But it did announce fiscal measures worth about 4% of China's GDP in 2019 according to our calculations. That's slightly less than some economists expected after seeing China's economy contract for the first time in decades in the first quarter. So my question is: can we expect China to deliver more ambitious stimulus in the months to come? Does China have sufficient policy options to deal with a prolonged global pandemic and rising tensions with the United States?
Premier Li:
The novel coronavirus disease has taken a heavy toll on the global economy in a way rarely seen before. Major international institutions have projected a negative 3 percent global growth or worse this year. As China's economy has become deeply integrated into the global economy, it is simply impossible for the Chinese economy to stay immune to such impacts. This year we decided not to set a specific growth target. This is a decision informed by the realities on the ground. In the meantime, we have formulated a series of goals and tasks in six key areas which are closely connected with economic development, with a particular focus on protecting employment, people's basic living needs, and market entities.
Not setting a specific GDP growth target does not mean that economic development is not important. Our decision is designed for economic growth to deliver more real gains to our people and promote higher quality development in China. We believe that development still holds the key and is the foundation for resolving all the problems in China today. Putting protections in place in six key areas, especially in the areas of jobs, livelihoods and businesses, will help us achieve positive and solid growth this year to the extent possible, and maintain steady economic development.
In your questions you said our measures are seen by some as below expectations. What I heard from many quarters is that our measures are forceful. For any response to work, we must get both the timing and intensity right. When COVID-19 was still raging, some policies were introduced. But with the economy barely reopened, the situation then made it difficult for these policies to get truly delivered on the ground, as most of the people still had to stay indoors. This has been a process of gaining experience. Based on the experience in the past weeks and months and our assessment of the current situation, we have decided on new policy steps of a sizable scale as set out in the Government Work Report, and we believe these measures are forceful.
We have repeatedly said that we will not flood China's economy with liquidity. We didn't do it in the past; we will not do it now. But the current unusual time requires extraordinary measures. Just as water is important to fish farming, sufficient liquidity is important to economic development. But too much water will induce froth in the fish pond, whereby some people may attempt to muddy the waters and fish for arbitrage. We must ensure that measures taken are well-focused, the prescription is precise and the medicines for getting out of the hardship effective. New approaches must be employed as to where the money comes from and how it is spent.
The financing raised through policies of a sizable scale can be grouped into mainly two categories. The first covers the increase of fiscal deficits and issuance of government bonds for COVID-19 control. Together it amounts to 2 trillion RMB yuan. The other category, which is roughly twice as big, covers payment relief for enterprises of their contributions to social security schemes, also known as payroll tax in some other countries, and taps into the balance of the unemployment insurance fund, interest concessions made by state-owned commercial banks, and price reductions in natural monopoly industries to lower enterprises' operating costs. This money will be primarily used to support jobs, people's basic living needs and businesses, and sustain household income. It accounts for a double-digit share in the more than 40 trillion RMB yuan of total household income in China.
What's more important is how the money is spent. Our measures of a sizable scale are designed to provide vital relief to businesses and revitalize the market. With a particular focus on supporting jobs and people's livelihoods, our people will have money to spend and consumption will drive market vitality. This is in keeping with market-oriented reform.
Money well-spent can create new money. Money invested in the people will generate new wealth, help us protect and preserve the tax base and make public finance more sustainable. We will do our utmost to keep China's economic growth stable and make steady progress. In other words, we will not kick up dirt and leave a trail of dust that will block the sight of those who follow. We have also reserved policy space on the fiscal, financial, social security and other fronts. And we are in a strong position to quickly introduce new measures without any hesitation should the evolving situation calls for it. It is essential that we keep China's economic growth on a steady course.
I am confident that under the strong leadership of the CPC Central Committee with Comrade Xi Jinping at its core and with joint efforts of people across the nation, we will be able to prevail over the current difficulties, fulfill our tasks and goals for the whole year, and complete the building of a moderately prosperous society in all respects. Keeping China's economic growth and fundamentals stable will be a contribution to the whole world. And China will remain a positive force driving global economic recovery and growth.
Bloomberg News: The origins of COVID-19 are still a mystery. Scientists think if we can find out where it came from, we could prevent future pandemics. There have been calls for an international independent inquiry into the origins. What is China's stance on how such an inquiry should be carried out? What should such an inquiry do and what should it not do?
Premier Li:
China and many countries believe that it is important to get a clear idea about the sources of the coronavirus. At the recently held World Health Assembly, a resolution was adopted, and China is one of the co-sponsors of this resolution. We believe that getting clear about the sources of the virus on the basis of science will help us better carry out containment of COVID-19, and also contribute to protecting life and health of people around the world.
The novel coronavirus disease has caught all countries by surprise. It is a completely new disease to humankind. So far, I'm afraid there is still more to the virus that we do not yet know. Viruses respect no borders, and they are the common enemy of the whole world and entire humanity. Nowadays, all countries are still working hard to contain the spread of the virus, and we are gaining experience along the way. We must work together to keep the virus in check. Research efforts need to be intensified for breakthroughs in vaccines, effective medicines and testing reagents, as they will be powerful weapons to help us succeed in checking the virus. China and many other countries are making investments into R&D of these products, and we are open to international cooperation. The deliverables of the R&D will be global public goods that we are ready to share with others. They will help the entire humankind in defeating the virus.
With painstaking efforts, the Chinese people have successfully brought the spread of the virus under control. And China has taken an active part in international cooperation against the virus. We have all along acted with openness, transparency and a sense of responsibility. We have shared information in a timely way with the rest of the international community. The virus is still spreading around the world. And in China it has not come to a complete end yet; there are still sporadic cases. Scientists have cautioned us to stay on high alert to prevent a resurgence of infections. We must continue to adopt a factual, science-based, open and transparent approach in dealing with COVID-19. Any infection, once detected, must be promptly handled, and no cover-up will ever be allowed.
Many people say that COVID-19 will not come to a stop any time soon and we may have to live with it for quite some time to come. All countries now are confronted with dual challenges. It's like doing double exams. We have to contain the spread of the virus, and at the same time do our best to get life and work back to normal. I'm afraid there is a certain level of trade-off between these two goals. Things would be quite different if we had only one task. So we will have to do our utmost to strike a delicate balance and continue to explore our way forward. In this process, international cooperation is vitally important. Whether it's fighting the virus or growing the economy, we must come together in a sense of partnership to eventually fight back the onslaught of the epidemic.
CCTV: In the Government Work Report, this year's economic policies have been spelled out. What will the government do to ensure that all these funds will be truly delivered to benefit companies, instead of just circulating within the financial sector, and bring real gains to the general public?
Premier Li:
In coping with the current round of unprecedented shocks, we don't have ready experience to draw from. It's not something we can manage with ease, and we will have to blaze a trail with hard efforts. We must be creative in crafting and delivering our policies. As I said just now, our policies, which are of a sizable scale, are designed to provide vital relief to businesses and revitalize the market, with particular focus on stabilizing employment and ensuring people's livelihood. They are not focused on large infrastructure projects. This is because big changes have taken place in China's economic structure, where consumption is now the primary engine driving growth, and micro, small and medium-sized companies now provide over 90 percent of all jobs in China. So under the sizable-scale policies introduced this time, some 70 percent of the funds will be used to support the increase in people's income through direct or relatively direct means in order to spur consumption and energize the market. One big challenge we have confronted in coping with COVID-19 is that containment efforts have had a dampening effect on consumption. Hence, measures in this direction are also part of our market-oriented reform.
Second, the funds made available will all be used to support primary-level governments and businesses, and ensure people's livelihood. The increase of budget deficits and funds raised from the issuance of government bonds for COVID-19 control will all be channeled to primary-level governments. Even provincial governments will be just passers-by to these funds. Some people may ask whether primary-level governments can ensure all the funds will be put to best use. In this respect, a special transfer payment mechanism will be established to see that companies, especially smaller firms, will truly benefit from these funds, and people who live on social security schemes, subsistence allowance, unemployment benefits, old-age support and those living in difficulties will be able to benefit. Real-name records will be established, and no cooking of books or embezzlement will ever be allowed. We will keep our eyes wide open and welcome public supervision. Eventually, the delivery of these measures will have to be recognized by businesses and our people.
The Central Government will lead by example in living on a tight budget. We will cut over 50 percent of outlays on non-essential, non-obligatory expenditures at the central government level, and the money saved will be mainly used to support primary-level governments, enterprises and people's basic living needs. Governments at all levels must tighten their belts, and reject pointless formalities and spending splurges.
Just now, I talked more about boosting consumption. That doesn't mean investment is not important. We will also expand effective investment. There will be an increase of 1.6 trillion RMB yuan of special local government bonds this year, and some treasury bonds as well, with the total amount topping 2 trillion RMB yuan. They account for between 20 and 30 percent of the funds made available under the sizable-scale policies we introduced this year. The focus of the funds will be on new infrastructures and new-type urbanization and key projects for national development. We will rely on reforms in undertaking these programs and mobilize private sector investment. And the projects supported must generate good returns, and be well-calibrated and delivered according to economic laws to avoid undesirable results.
China Times:
Because of COVID-19, the Two Sessions this year have been postponed to May, which is quite close to the date of 20 May. As the DPP continues to govern in Taiwan, what is the overall consideration of the mainland concerning its policy toward Taiwan? And what will the mainland do to promote relations across the Taiwan Strait?
Premier Li:
As I said in the Government Work Report, our principles and policies toward Taiwan have been consistent and well-known to the international community. We will stay committed to the one-China principle and the 1992 Consensus. We will continue to firmly oppose "Taiwan independence". Based on this political foundation, we are ready to have dialogue and consultation with any party, group or personage in Taiwan regarding cross-Strait relations and the future of the Chinese nation, and promote peaceful growth of cross-Strait relations. We will continue to show maximum sincerity and do our very utmost to promote peaceful reunification of China. The Taiwan question is China's internal affair. And we have all along opposed external interference. The Chinese nation has the wisdom and the ability to handle its own affairs.
We view our fellow compatriots in Taiwan as brothers and sisters. Blood is thicker than water. We will continue to pay high attention to their well-being. Thanks to our joint efforts, there has been no loss of life to COVID-19 among Taiwan compatriots working and living on the mainland. In the face of the epidemic, we wish people on both sides of the Taiwan Strait safety and good health.
China Daily:
In this year's Government Work Report, the target of new urban jobs has been revised downward, and the target of surveyed urban unemployment rate upward, compared with the levels last year. In the face of the severe employment situation, what will the government do to avert massive job losses and help college graduates and rural migrant workers find jobs?
Premier Li:
We have set this year's target of new urban jobs at over 9 million, somewhat below last year's level. To attain this goal, we need to maintain a certain level of economic growth. The urban surveyed unemployment rate target is set at around 6 percent. In fact, in April, that figure already hit 6 percent, so such a target was set on the basis of the situation on the ground.
Employment matters the most in people's lives. It is something of paramount importance for all families. Of all the comments posted by netizens on the Chinese government portal website, some one third are about jobs. One of them was posted by a rural migrant worker in his 50s. He said that over the past 30 plus years, he had been working in cities every year. But so far this year he has been unable to find a job and the whole family is now in difficulty. Many self-employed individuals have seen their businesses grinding to a halt for several months. And some export companies have also been in great difficulty for lack of orders. This is affecting the jobs of their employees. We must provide support to all these people. But most importantly, we must help them land jobs. There is a labor force of 900 million in China. If they are out of work, there will be 900 million mouths to feed; if they are all put to work, 900 million pairs of hands will be able to generate tremendous wealth.
In order to retain existing jobs, all our pro-job measures will be fully employed with the largest input of funds. Such sizable policy funds can be used by primary-level governments to implement tax and fee cuts, and subsidize rents or interest payment in support of companies. So all these measures are designed to keep companies in business and secure the jobs of their employees and they will be implemented in a fair and reasonable way. We will also finance skills training initiatives by businesses to stabilize employment. This year and the next, we will tap into the balance of the unemployment insurance fund to provide some 35 million vocational skills training opportunities. This will cushion the impact of unemployment, and we will help people who lose their jobs get reemployed as soon as possible.
We also need to do our best to create new jobs. Nowadays, some 100 million people are employed in new forms of business and industry, and some 200 million people are working in the gig economy. The government must continue to provide support and at the same time lift all unwarranted restrictions that prevent the development of those industries and sectors. We also need to create a favorable environment for the increase of new job opportunities. Last year, more than 10,000 new businesses were created on an average day, and we will continue to work hard to see that the figure stays at this level this year.
We can certainly rely on the innovation and initiative of the Chinese people in this respect. One may recall when young people returned to the cities from the countryside in large numbers in the early days of reform and opening-up, the opening of roadside tea stands helped to put many of them to work. About two weeks ago, I saw in the news that a city in China's western region, in keeping with local rules and regulations, set up 36,000 mobile stalls, adding some 100,000 new jobs overnight.
Our people are hardworking and the Chinese market keeps expanding and upgrading. In this process, the government must focus on providing support to key groups in their employment. The number of new college graduates will reach a record high of 8.74 million this year. We must provide employment services to these people, both this year and next, so that they will not be left to their own devices. And for rural migrant workers, no matter whether they are still working in a city or have returned to their hometown, we will put in place employment service platforms to support them in landing jobs. We must also fully implement all the support measures for demobilized military personnel as well.
Phoenix TV: At this year's NPC Session, a decision was adopted on establishing and improving the legal system and enforcement mechanisms for safeguarding national security in the Hong Kong SAR. The Standing Committee of the NPC will also set in motion a legislative process in this respect. Does this mean that the Central Government has adjusted its policy toward Hong Kong and abandoned "one country, two systems"? How do you respond to the various comments in this respect?
Premier Li:
"One country, two systems" is China's basic state policy. The Central Government has all along fully and faithfully implemented the "one country, two systems" under which the people of Hong Kong administer Hong Kong with a high degree of autonomy, acted in strict accordance with the Constitution and the Basic Law, and supported the Hong Kong SAR government and the Chief Executive in exercising administration according to law. The decision adopted at the NPC Session to safeguard national security is designed for the steady implementation of "one country, two systems" and for Hong Kong's long-term prosperity and stability.
NBC News: The United States continues to blame China for the global pandemic. There's more and more talk of a cold war between the US and China. At the same time, Chinese and American officials talk of creating favorable conditions for the phase one trade deal that could help stabilize the relationship. Are you still confident that more economic reforms and concessions of China can adequately address America's concerns, given that China's economy has been weakened? Or if the efforts for cooperation fail, can China's economy withstand the threat of a "cold war" and "decoupling"?
Premier Li:
It is true that at the moment, China-US relations have encountered some new problems and challenges. This is a very important bilateral relationship. Both countries are permanent members of the UN Security Council. There are many areas where the two countries can and should work with each other in tackling both traditional and non-traditional challenges. There are also extensive exchanges between the two countries in the economic, trade, scientific, technological, cultural and other fields. So it is fair to say that there is extensive common interest between China and the United States. Both countries stand to gain from cooperation and lose from confrontation. Getting Sino-US relationship right is in the interest of people of both countries and the whole world. Given the importance of this relationship, the problems that occurred in this relationship have been a cause for concern for the international community. As for a cold war, you know that we have all along rejected the "cold war" mentality. And "decoupling" between major economies will do neither side any good. It is also harmful to the world. I believe we should continue to work together to follow through on the important consensus reached between our two presidents and work jointly to foster a Sino-US relationship based on coordination, cooperation and stability.
The economies of our two countries have become closely interconnected. Our economic and trade ties have come a long way, and both sides have benefited tremendously. Just a few days ago, an American high-tech firm announced the launch of an investment project in Wuhan. I shouldn't do any commercial promotion for any company, but I highly appreciate this move and sent my message of congratulations to mark the occasion. I believe this example shows that the business communities of our two countries need each other, and our business cooperation can be of mutual benefit.
I believe the economic cooperation and trade between our two countries should follow commercial principles. We should leave the decisions to the market and to the business leaders. The job of the government is to establish platforms for the business communities of the two countries. China and the United States are the world's largest developing and developed countries respectively. Given the differences in our social systems, cultural heritage and historical backgrounds, some disagreements and even frictions may be unavoidable. What's important is how we manage them. The relationship has been moving forward amid twists and turns in the past several decades, featuring both growing cooperation and some bumps along the way. Indeed, this is a complex relationship. We must use our wisdom to expand common interests and manage differences and disagreements. In a word, I believe that the two countries should develop a relationship on the basis of mutual respect, equality and mutual benefit, respect each other's core interests and major concerns, and embrace cooperation. That will be conducive to the interests of both countries and the world.
Xinhua News Agency: When we talk about the economic work agenda for the Chinese government this year, the words we have heard most frequently are stability and protections. What are their relations with market-oriented reforms? What will be the priorities of reform this year?
Premier Li:
Our experience in the past 40-plus years of reform and opening-up shows that the greater difficulty we face, the more important it is for us to keep to reform. In our macro policies, we outlined sets of priority areas where stability is key and where protections are needed. Our measures are designed to help those vast numbers of market entities and are built around addressing their difficulties and concerns. This in itself is consistent with our market-oriented reform.
First and foremost, we must help all our businesses survive. Our solid measures must serve to provide vital relief to businesses and revitalize the market. Hence, all these measures must deliver real gains to companies and support self-employed individuals. As I said in the Government Work Report, we must do our utmost to help the 120 million market entities in China sustain themselves, and that will help us assure success for the future.
At the same time we must work hard to help our businesses thrive by pressing ahead with reform of government functions. We will continue to foster a market-oriented and world-class business environment governed by a sound legal framework. The government must lift all unnecessary restrictions on market entities to facilitate fair competition. Such policies and measures, intangible as they are, will create tangible wealth in our businesses just like real investments.
Furthermore, we must work hard to help more new market entities emerge. We have seen a trend-bucking surge of growth in new forms of business and industry during the COVID-19 response, including online shopping, express delivery services, and teleworking. Some new forms of business have even seen their revenues increase by two thirds. I believe such developments are very much attributable to our initiatives and reforms in recent years, including the supply-side structural reform, our efforts to promote high-quality development and foster new drivers of growth, and our initiative of encouraging business start-ups and innovation. We must use the experience gained in this process to the fullest extent to foster more growth drivers and help more market entities grow. This year, our goal is to see that the number of newly registered businesses stay at about 20,000 on an average day. And that figure has become an important indicator gauging the economic vitality of China.
We pay close attention to these smaller firms, but we also highly value the role of big companies. We hope that companies of all sizes will be able to thrive together through close cooperation and collaboration. We also expect that more smaller firms will one day grow into large companies. This year,we must ensure full delivery of all these relief and support measures, and at the same time work for notable improvement in China's business environment. These measures, when combined, will produce multiplying effects.
Asahi Shimbun:
COVID-19 has taken a big hit on the global economy. But China has been successful in bringing the spread of the virus under control. What does China plan to do to advance economic cooperation with Japan and other neighboring countries? What is China's plan for advancing the FTA among China, Japan and the Republic of Korea, the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) and other free trade arrangements? Does China have a plan to join the TPP?
Premier Li:
I recall that last year at the leaders' meeting of East Asian cooperation, leaders of 15 countries made the commitment of signing the RCEP by the end of this year. I hope and believe that this commitment will not come to nothing. China, Japan and the ROK are also working closely together to advance their FTA development. The three countries are close neighbors, and we would like to work with the other two countries to develop a mini economic cycle within the bigger economic cycle. For example, recently China and the ROK have opened a fast-track service for personnel inter-flows in areas such as commerce and technology. We believe this will benefit the resumption of economic activities, and our geographical proximity has put us in a good position to benefit from this earlier.
As for your question about TPP, I suppose what you mean is the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP). China has a positive and open attitude toward joining the CPTPP.
People's Daily:
This year, China plans to win its battle against poverty. But because of COVID-19, many families have seen a decline in their household income. And some are even at the risk of falling back into poverty. So are we able to fulfill the task of winning the battle against poverty this year? And what will the government do to meet people's essential needs?
Premier Li:
Our country is a developing country with a big population. The per capita annual disposable income in China is 30,000 RMB yuan. But there are still some 600 million people earning a medium or low income, or even less. Their monthly income is barely 1,000 RMB yuan. It's not even enough to rent a room in a medium Chinese city. And because of COVID-19, many families have encountered difficulties. So it is a very high priority on the government's work agenda to meet the essential needs of vulnerable groups and those families who have encountered new difficulties because of COVID-19. This is a very important part of the government's work agenda. And a fairly big part of our support policies are designed for this very purpose.
This year, we are determined to end poverty as scheduled. This is a serious commitment made by the CPC Central Committee with Comrade Xi Jinping at its core to the whole of Chinese society. Before COVID-19 struck, there were some 5 million people living below the poverty line. But because of the disease, some may have fallen back into poverty. Hence we now face a greater task in meeting our goal. But with our multi-pronged policies and measures to ensure the essential needs of our people, we have the confidence to win the battle against poverty this year.
Governments at all levels must always put people's interests first and bear in mind the hardships of the Chinese people. In introducing each and every policy, we must make sure that it contributes to the well-being of all families and to the better lives of our people. In responding to COVID-19 this year, we must make thoughtful and meticulous plans to ensure the basic needs of all vulnerable groups. In this respect, we have decided to expand the coverage of subsistence allowance and unemployment benefits. Some 60 million people in China still live on subsistence allowance or receive unemployment benefits, penury assistance, or other relief or support. This year, we are expected to see a big increase in the number of recipients. We have sufficient funds to support these vulnerable groups. We must use the money wisely to ensure that every cent will be well spent. Some 300 million senior Chinese citizens live on old-age pension. We decided to raise the pensions for these retirees this year. We must fully deliver all our commitments.
Actions count, and actions always speak louder than words. We have sufficient balance in our social security fund to ensure that pension benefits will be paid on time and in full, and there should be no loopholes in the operation of the fund. This way, we will be able to give our people more hope about their future. More importantly, the Chinese have a tradition of respecting and taking good care of the elderly. We must ensure that all the benefits and support will be duly provided. This will reassure our people and also help us promote China's economic development. As the saying goes, the people is the foundation of a state. When the foundation is strong, the state will be secure. So we must fully deliver on all those policies and measures. And that will make our people more hopeful about their future.
Lianhe Zaobao:
In the Government Work Report, you said that China will face some factors that are difficult to predict in its development due to the great uncertainty regarding the COVID-19 pandemic and world economic and trade environment. So what is your reading of the external situation China faces? What will China do to cope with the changes in the international environment? And what role will China play in the global responses to the public health challenge and the challenge of serious global recession?
Premier Li:
Let's look at what's happening around us. COVID-19 has impacted our world profoundly. There has been a significant deceleration and decline of exchanges and cooperation between countries because of the containment requirements. Should such a trend continue, the global economy will be pushed into deeper recession and that is something dangerous. And if the world economy cannot resume growth, it may be even challenging to sustain the COVID-19 response. In responding to COVID-19, we need public goods more than ever before; we need to keep the international industrial and supply chains stable. This requires even greater openness and the pursuit of trade liberalization and investment facilitation. With such joint efforts we will be able to prevail over and minimize the effects of COVID-19 on the world.
It is impossible for any country to achieve development with its door closed or retreat back to the agrarian times. China will keep to its opening-up policy. China will not waver in this commitment, nor is it possible for us to shut our door to the outside world. Instead, we will further expand our cooperation with the rest of the world and introduce more opening-up measures on our own initiative.
Openness is as indispensable to a country's development as air is to human beings. One will suffocate in an enclosed space. We, in this process, will work with others to keep global industrial and supply chains stable. Some have made plain their intention to readjust the global industrial and supply chains. We believe the shifts in global production of businesses should be done in accordance with market principles. In the marketplace, it is only natural for companies to come and go, succeed or fail. People should not make arbitrary plans against market rules. Instead, we should open up our markets wider to each other.
In an environment of mutual openness, we believe it's important for countries to live side by side in amity. We hope that all countries will observe the principles of mutual respect and equality. We believe that all countries should be equals, big or small, rich or poor, strong or weak. And if there are some rules in today's world that need to be improved, we can all sit down and work things out through discussions. We need to pursue mutual benefit in our cooperation. We don't think for any one particular party to take all the benefits will work. Instead, we should pursue win-win. And in this environment we may achieve shared success. Countries should also support, help and learn from each other, as we can make the most of our comparative advantages. We believe all countries should fulfill their due international obligations and work together to tackle common challenges and difficulties. And China, as a large developing country, will surely live up to its share of international responsibilities.
China is a huge market. All these policies of a sizable scale that we have introduced to provide relief to businesses will further spur consumption and energize our market. And we hope that people will stay optimistic about coming to invest in this big market of China. China is also prepared to boost imports from other parts of the world and we will be a big market for the whole world.
As for how to respond to the public health crisis and global economic recession, as I have said in my previous remarks, we believe all members of the global community should pull together in a sense of partnership to prevail over the current difficulty. We hope and believe that with joint efforts of people around the world, the post-COVID-19 world will be a more open one. And this post-recession world will embrace new prosperity.
The Press Conference was held via a video link between the main venue, the Golden Hall on the third floor of the Great Hall of the People, and the Press Center for the NPC and CPPCC Sessions at Media Center Hotel. It lasted for about 110 minutes."
"Statement by H.E. Xi Jinping
President of the People's Republic of China
At Virtual Event of Opening of the 73rd World Health Assembly
Beijing, 18 May 2020
President of the World Health Assembly,
Director General of the World Health Organization,
Dear Delegates,
To begin with, I wish to say that it is of significant importance for this World Health Assembly to be held at such a critical moment as the human race battles this novel coronavirus.
What we are facing is the most serious global public health emergency since the end of World War II. Catching the world by surprise, COVID-19 has hit over 210 countries and regions, affected more than seven billion people around the world and claimed over 300,000 precious lives. I mourn for every life lost and express condolences to the bereaved families.
The history of human civilization is one of fighting diseases and tiding over disasters. The virus does not respect borders. Nor is race or nationality relevant in the face of the disease. Confronted by the ravages of COVID-19, the international community has not flinched. The people of all countries have tackled the virus head on. Around the world, people have looked out for each other and pulled together as one. With love and compassion, we have forged extraordinary synergy in the fight against COVID-19.
In China, after making painstaking efforts and enormous sacrifice, we have turned the tide on the virus and protected the life and health of our people. All along, we have acted with openness, transparency and responsibility. We have provided information to WHO and relevant countries in a most timely fashion. We have released the genome sequence at the earliest possible time. We have shared control and treatment experience with the world without reservation. We have done everything in our power to support and assist countries in need.
Mr. President,
Even as we meet, the virus is still raging, and more must be done to bring it under control. To this end, I want to make the following proposals:
First, we must do everything we can for COVID-19 control and treatment.
This is a most urgent task. We must always put the people first, for nothing in the world is more precious than people's lives. We need to deploy medical expertise and critical supplies to places where they are needed the most. We need to take strong steps in such key areas as prevention, quarantine, detection, treatment and tracing. We need to move as fast as we can to curb the global spread of the virus and do our best to stem cross-border transmission. We need to step up information sharing, exchange experience and best practice, and pursue international cooperation on testing methods, clinical treatment, and vaccine and medicine research and development. We also need to continue supporting global research by scientists on the source and transmission routes of the virus.
Second, the World Health Organization should lead the global response.
Under the leadership of Dr. Tedros, WHO has made a major contribution in leading and advancing the global response to COVID-19. Its good work is applauded by the international community. At this crucial juncture, to support WHO is to support international cooperation and the battle for saving lives as well. China calls on the international community to increase political and financial support for WHO so as to mobilize resources worldwide to defeat the virus.
Third, we must provide greater support for Africa.
Developing countries, African countries in particular, have weaker public health systems. Helping them build capacity must be our top priority in COVID-19 response. The world needs to provide more material, technological and personnel support for African countries. China has sent a tremendous amount of medical supplies and assistance to over 50 African countries and the African Union. Five Chinese medical expert teams have also been sent to the African continent. In total, in the past seven decades, over 200 million people in Africa have received care and treatment from Chinese medical teams. At present, 46 resident Chinese medical teams are in Africa helping with COVID-19 containment efforts locally.
Fourth, we must strengthen global governance in the area of public health.
We human beings will eventually prevail over the coronavirus. Yet this may not be the last time a major health emergency comes knocking at our door. In view of the weaknesses and deficiencies exposed by COVID-19, we need to improve the governance system for public health security. We need to respond more quickly to public health emergencies and establish global and regional reserve centers of anti-epidemic supplies. China supports the idea of a comprehensive review of the global response to COVID-19 after it is brought under control to sum up experience and address deficiencies. This work should be based on science and professionalism, led by WHO and conducted in an objective and impartial manner.
Fifth, we must restore economic and social development
. While working on an ongoing basis to contain the virus, countries where conditions permit may reopen businesses and schools in an orderly fashion in observance of WHO's professional recommendations. In the meantime, international macroeconomic policy coordination should be stepped up and the global industrial and supply chains be kept stable and unclogged if we are to restore growth to the world economy.
Sixth, we must strengthen international cooperation.
Mankind is a community with a shared future. Solidarity and cooperation is our most powerful weapon for defeating the virus. This is the key lesson the world has learned from fighting HIV/AIDS, Ebola, avian influenza, influenza A (H1N1) and other major epidemics. And solidarity and cooperation is a sure way through which we, the people of the world, can defeat this novel coronavirus.
Mr. President,
China stands for the vision of building a community with a shared future for mankind. China takes it as its responsibility to ensure not just the life and health of its own citizens, but also global public health. For the sake of boosting international cooperation against COVID-19, I would like to announce the following:
- China will provide US$2 billion over two years to help with COVID-19 response and with economic and social development in affected countries, especially developing countries.
- China will work with the UN to set up a global humanitarian response depot and hub in China, ensure the operation of anti-epidemic supply chains and foster "green corridors" for fast-track transportation and customs clearance.
- China will establish a cooperation mechanism for its hospitals to pair up with 30 African hospitals and accelerate the building of the Africa CDC headquarters to help the continent ramp up its disease preparedness and control capacity.
- COVID-19 vaccine development and deployment in China, when available, will be made a global public good. This will be China's contribution to ensuring vaccine accessibility and affordability in developing countries.
- China will work with other G20 members to implement the Debt Service Suspension Initiative for the poorest countries. China is also ready to work with the international community to bolster support for the hardest-hit countries under the greatest strain of debt service, so that they could tide over the current difficulties.
To conclude, I call on all of us to come together and work as one. Let's make concerted efforts to protect the life and health of people in all countries. Let's work together to safeguard planet Earth, our common home. Let's work together to build a global community of health for all!
I thank you."
"On the evening of 26 March, President Xi Jinping attended the Extraordinary G20 Leaders' Summit on COVID-19 in Beijing and delivered important remarks entitled "Working Together to Defeat the COVID-19 Outbreak".
Xi stressed that facing the COVID-19 outbreak that caught us all by surprise, the Chinese government and Chinese people have been undaunted as we took on this formidable task. From day one of our fight against the outbreak, we have put people's life and health first. We have acted according to the overall principle of shoring up confidence, strengthening unity, ensuring science-based control and treatment and imposing targeted measures. We have mobilized the whole nation, set up collective control and treatment mechanisms and acted with openness and transparency. What we fought was a people's war against the outbreak. We have put up a strenuous struggle and made tremendous sacrifices. Now the situation in China is moving steadily in a positive direction. Life and work are quickly returning to normal. Yet, there is no way we will lower our guard or relax control. As we speak, the COVID-19 outbreak is spreading worldwide. At such a moment, it is imperative for the international community to strengthen confidence, act with unity and work together in a collective response so that humanity as one could win the battle against such a major infectious disease. Guided by the vision of building a community with a shared future for mankind, China will be more than ready to provide assistance where we can to other countries and contribute to a stable world economy.
The summit was chaired by King Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud of Saudi Arabia, the G20 presidency this year. It was attended by the leaders of G20 members and some invited countries and heads of the World Health Organization, the United Nations, the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and some other international organizations.
All parties shared the view that the fast spreading outbreak has not only seriously undermined global public health security but also brought enormous negative impacts in economic, financial and political terms. In the face of this common crisis for humanity, no country can stay immune. Now is the time more than ever that the international community needs solidarity and cooperation. It is imperative to take prompt, coordinated and robust actions to effectively stem the spread of the virus, strengthen joint research and development of drugs and vaccines, enhance the treatment of those affected and protect the lives and health of people. They called for effective fiscal and monetary policies to keep global supply chains safe and stable, maintain global financial stability, spur an early recovery of the world economy, and minimize the economic and social damage caused by COVID-19. All parties expressed support for the leading role of WHO and committed to help developing countries and vulnerable groups enhance preparedness and response capacity.
The summit released a statement on COVID-19.
The summit, hosted by Saudi Arabia via video link, was aimed at promoting global cooperation on fighting the epidemic and stabilizing the world economy."
"Remarks by H.E. Xi Jinping
President of the People's Republic of China
At the Extraordinary G20 Leaders' Summit
Beijing, 26 March 2020
Your Majesty King Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud,
Dear Colleagues,
It is good to join you. Let me begin by expressing my sincere appreciation to His Majesty King Salman and Saudi Arabia for having done tremendous work of communication and coordination to make this summit possible.
Facing the COVID-19 outbreak that caught us all by surprise, the Chinese government and Chinese people have been undaunted as we took on this formidable task. From day one of our fight against the outbreak, we have put people's life and health first. We have acted according to the overall principle of shoring up confidence, strengthening unity, ensuring science-based control and treatment and imposing targeted measures. We have mobilized the whole nation, set up collective control and treatment mechanisms and acted with openness and transparency. What we fought was a people's war against the outbreak. We have put up a strenuous struggle and made tremendous sacrifices. Now the situation in China is moving steadily in a positive direction. Life and work are quickly returning to normal. Yet, there is no way we will lower our guard or relax control.
At the most difficult moment in our fight against the outbreak, China received assistance and help from a lot of members of the global community. Such expressions of friendship will always be remembered and cherished by the Chinese people.
Major infectious disease is the enemy of all. As we speak, the COVID-19 outbreak is spreading worldwide, posing enormous threat to life and health and bringing formidable challenge to global public health security. The situation is disturbing and unsettling.
At such a moment, it is imperative for the international community to strengthen confidence, act with unity and work together in a collective response.
We must comprehensively step up international cooperation and foster greater synergy so that humanity as one could win the battle against such a major infectious disease.
For that to happen, I would like to put forth four proposals.
First, we need to be resolute in fighting an all-out global war against the COVID-19 outbreak.
The community of nations must move swiftly to stem the spread of the virus. In this regard, I propose that a G20 health ministers' meeting be convened as quick as possible to improve information sharing, strengthen cooperation on drugs, vaccines and epidemic control, and cut off cross-border infections. G20 members need to jointly help developing countries with weak public health systems enhance preparedness and response. I propose a G20 COVID-19 assistance initiative for better information sharing and policy and action coordination with the support of the World Health Organization. Guided by the vision of building a community with a shared future for mankind, China will be more than ready to share our good practices, conduct joint research and development of drugs and vaccines, and provide assistance where we can to countries hit by the growing outbreak.
Second, we need to make a collective response for control and treatment at the international level.
This is a virus that respects no borders. The outbreak we are battling is our common enemy. All must work together to build a strongest global network of control and treatment that the world has ever seen. China has set up its online COVID-19 knowledge center that is open to all countries. It is imperative that countries pool their strengths and speed up research and development of drugs, vaccines and testing capabilities in the hope to achieve early breakthrough to the benefit of all. Discussions are also needed regarding the establishment of regional emergency liaison mechanisms to enable quicker response to public health emergencies.
Third, we need to support international organizations in playing their active roles.
China supports WHO in leading the global efforts to develop science-based and proper control and treatment and minimize cross-border spread. I call on G20 members to enhance anti-epidemic information sharing with the support of WHO and to promote control and treatment protocols that are comprehensive, systematic and effective. The G20 platform for communication and coordination may be used to increase policy dialogue and exchange, and a high-level meeting on international public health security may be convened in due course. For China, we will be happy to join other countries and scale up support for relevant international and regional organizations.
Fourth, we need to enhance international macro-economic policy coordination.
The outbreak has disrupted production and demand across the globe. Countries need to leverage and coordinate their macro policies to counteract the negative impact and prevent the world economy from falling into recession. We need to implement strong and effective fiscal and monetary policies to keep our exchange rates basically stable. We need to better coordinate financial regulation to keep global financial markets stable. We need to jointly keep the global industrial and supply chains stable. What China will do in this regard is to increase its supply of active pharmaceutical ingredients, daily necessities, and anti-epidemic and other supplies to the international market. What's more, we also need to protect women, children, the elderly, people with disabilities and other vulnerable groups, and provide for people's basic needs. China will continue to pursue a proactive fiscal policy and prudent monetary policy. We will continue to advance reform and opening-up, widen market access, improve the business environment, and expand imports and outbound investment to contribute to a stable world economy.
I want to call on all G20 members to take collective actions - cutting tariffs, removing barriers, and facilitating the unfettered flow of trade. Together, we can send a strong signal and restore confidence for global economic recovery. The G20 needs to draw up an action plan and promptly set up communication mechanisms and institutional arrangements for anti-epidemic macro policy coordination.
Dear Colleagues,
Now is a crucial moment, a time for us to rise up to challenge and act with swiftness. I am convinced that through solidarity and mutual assistance, we will prevail over this outbreak and we all will embrace a brighter future for mankind!
Thank you."
"Nay Pyi Taw, 17 January 2020
Your Excellency President U Win Myint,
Your Excellency State Counsellor Daw Aung San Suu Kyi,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
Mingalaba!
(Nice to meet you!)
This is the start of the new year. Myanmar has just celebrated its Independence Day and China will soon have its Spring Festival. It warms my heart to visit Myanmar at such an auspicious time and join all of you in this delightful gathering tonight. On behalf of the Chinese government and people, let me first extend our best regards and new year greetings to people from across sectors in Myanmar.
Just now, we have heard the warm and gracious remarks from President U Win Myint and State Counsellor Daw Aung San Suu Kyi. In a moment, we will jointly launch celebrations for the 70th anniversary of China-Myanmar diplomatic relations and for the China-Myanmar Year of Culture and Tourism. This is an important landmark in the long history of our friendly exchanges, one that will be celebrated with great festivity by our two peoples. I am truly delighted to join you in witnessing this historic moment.
China and Myanmar are neighbors connected by shared mountains and rivers, and our people have enjoyed friendly ties for thousands of years. About 2,000 years ago during China's Qin and Han Dynasties, the two sides traded with each other along the southern Silk Road. At the heyday of the Tang Dynasty in the early 9th century, the Prince of Pyu led a dancing and music troupe to China and became an emissary of China-Myanmar friendship. In the last century, the two sides fought shoulder to shoulder against colonialism and imperialism. These examples reflect the profound friendship between us and testify to our great tradition of sharing weal and woe.
Both Chinese and Myanmar cultures cherish the belief in a "shared bond". Our two countries are geographically linked, our peoples are connected by kinship and our cultures enjoy a natural affinity. Our millennia-old, time-tested "pauk-phaw" friendship is as strong as ever; it is the driving force and source of strength behind China-Myanmar relations. By celebrating 70 years of diplomatic ties, the two sides may increase mutual learning as civilizations, expand people-to-people exchanges, and deliver solid results and real benefits to our peoples. This will engage more people in China and Myanmar who will become stakeholders, beneficiaries and supporters of China-Myanmar friendship, thus cementing public support for our friendly ties.
Culture and people make a country known to the world. My last visit to Myanmar was 11 years ago. The renowned Golden Pagoda in Yangon, the warmth and hospitality of the people, and the diverse cultures and customs all left me a fond memory. Coming back this time, I see that Nay Pyi Taw is as tranquil and serene, and is just as vibrant a city. With the launch of the China-Myanmar Year of Culture and Tourism, I am sure more and more Chinese will come to Myanmar and be amazed by the beauty of this millennia-old civilization.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
History moves on and takes us forward. To advance China-Myanmar relations in the new era, we need to build on past achievements, stay true to our shared ideals and blaze a new trail together. President U Win Myint and I have agreed that my visit shall mark the start of our joint endeavor to build a China-Myanmar community with a shared future. This important political consensus speaks volumes about the special bond between China and Myanmar, a bond as close as between lips and teeth. It gives vivid expression to the fraternal friendship between our peoples who have supported each other through thick and thin, and draws up a new and overarching blueprint for future growth of bilateral ties.
The year 2020 is of great significance for China, for Myanmar and for our relations. This year, China will become a moderately prosperous society in all respects and win victory over the battle against poverty; Myanmar will hold a general election and enter a new phase of national development. This year also marks the beginning of a new era for China-Myanmar relations. Guided by the shared vision of a China-Myanmar community with a shared future and by the fundamental interests of our peoples, we must pursue stronger political trust, broader practical cooperation and closer cultural exchanges, so that the two peoples will forever be good neighbors, good friends, good pauk-phaw and good partners.
A few moments ago, I watched a photo exhibition marking the 70th anniversary of China-Myanmar diplomatic relations. I was particularly struck by a photo of Premier Zhou Enlai visiting Myanmar from June 28 to 29 in 1954. In that visit to Myanmar and India, China and the two countries issued joint statements to initiate the Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence. These Five Principles have made a major contribution to the history of international relations.
The world today is undergoing deep changes not seen in a century. Countries are closely linked and are increasingly becoming a community with a shared future. Yet, the lack of equality and justice is still prominent in international relations. To safeguard world peace and promote common development remains a challenging goal. Under new circumstances, the Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence are more relevant than ever before. China and Myanmar, working together, can set an example for advocating and applying the Five Principles and be role models in the handling of state-to-state relations. Together, we can encourage all to join the efforts for building a community with a shared future for mankind.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
In the 1960s, Marshal Chen Yi, once China's foreign minister, wrote that "deep are the feelings of pauk-phaw, just as long is the flow of our rivers." I am convinced that with joint efforts, the tide of China-Myanmar friendship and cooperation for common development will surge forward, like the Lancang and the Irrawaddy, coming from the same origin and rushing past mountains and shoals, in unstoppable flows.
Let me conclude with a wish from the bottom of my heart -
Long live China-Myanmar friendship!"
"BEIJING, Jan. 16, A signed article by Chinese President Xi Jinping titled "Writing a New Chapter in Our Millennia-Old Pauk-Phaw Friendship" was published Thursday on three Myanmese newspapers ahead of his state visit to this Southeast Asian country.
An English version of the full text of the article, carried by Myanma Alinn Daily, The Mirror and The Global New Light of Myanmar, is as follows:
Writing a New Chapter in Our Millennia-Old Pauk-Phaw Friendship
Xi Jinping
President of the People's Republic of China
As we mark the 70th anniversary of China-Myanmar diplomatic relations, it gives me great pleasure to pay a state visit to Myanmar at the invitation of President U Win Myint. I visited this beautiful land in 2009, and was deeply impressed by its serene landscape, diverse cultures and hardworking people. With the upcoming visit, I look forward to renewing China's "pauk-phaw" ties with Myanmar and discussing our future cooperation.
China and Myanmar are close neighbors connected by shared mountains and rivers. Our people have lived alongside each other for thousands of years. In Myanmar language, pauk-phaw means siblings from the same mother. It is an apt description of the fraternal sentiments between our two peoples, whose close ties date back to ancient times. As early as the 4th century B.C., our ancestors began to trade with each other through the "Gold and Silver Road" linking China's Sichuan and Yunnan provinces with Myanmar and India. In the heyday of China's Tang Dynasty in the early 9th century, the Prince of Pyu led a troupe of dancers and musicians on a visit to Chang'an (the capital of Tang Dynasty known today as Xi'an). Their enchanting performance was celebrated by Bai Juyi, the foremost Chinese poet of his time, in an ode to music from the kingdom of Pyu. Soon after the founding of the People's Republic of China in 1949, Myanmar was the first of countries with a different social system to recognize New China. The elder statesmen of our two countries have since made enormous efforts to develop China-Myanmar relations. Chinese Premier Zhou Enlai, who visited Myanmar nine times, is still fondly remembered for celebrating Thingyan Festival together with the people of Myanmar while dressed in traditional local attire.
Throughout the 70 years of our diplomatic ties, China and Myanmar have together championed and put into practice the Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence. Our relationship has been marked by mutual trust, mutual respect and mutual support. It has become a prime example of equality, win-win cooperation and common development between countries of different sizes. Our close ties have delivered real benefits to people in both countries.
-- We have further cemented political mutual trust. In the 1960s, Myanmar became the first among China's neighbors to settle the boundary issue with China in the spirit of equal consultation, mutual understanding and mutual accommodation. Today, our two countries enjoy close high-level exchanges, and our comprehensive strategic cooperative partnership is growing steadily. China firmly supports Myanmar in pursuing a development path suited to its national conditions. China supports the efforts of the Myanmar government to promote peace and reconciliation, and supports Myanmar in safeguarding its legitimate rights and interests and national dignity in the international arena. Myanmar, for its part, has given China staunch support on issues involving China's core interests and major concerns.
-- We have further expanded our practical cooperation. The economies of China and Myanmar are highly complementary, promising great room for cooperation. China has long been Myanmar's largest trading partner and most important source of investment. Our bilateral trade reached 16.8 billion U.S. dollars in the first 11 months of 2019. More and more agricultural and livestock products from Myanmar are making their way to Chinese kitchens. Fruitful cooperation is taking place in infrastructure construction and many other fields. With Myanmar as an important partner country of the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), our two sides have capitalized on the convergence of our development strategies. We have signed cooperation documents on building the China-Myanmar Economic Corridor (CMEC) and established a joint CMEC committee to oversee steady progress.
-- We have further strengthened people-to-people bonds. Our vibrant cultural, religious and personnel exchanges provide solid support for deepening our pauk-phaw friendship. China's national treasure, the Buddha tooth relic, was displayed four times in Myanmar for public obeisance. With donations from Myanmar, a Myanmese-style shrine has been built at the White Horse Temple in Luoyang, Henan province of China. With the help of Chinese doctors and nurses, many cataract patients in Myanmar have had their sight restored and children with congenital heart disease have received proper medical care. Popular Chinese films and TV programs have found a wide audience in Myanmar.
This year, China will achieve its First Centenary Goal of ushering in a moderately prosperous society in all respects. Myanmar is making continuous progress in economic and social development. As we mark the 70th anniversary of our diplomatic relations, it is important that we carry forward our traditional friendship and deepen mutually beneficial cooperation, so that we will bring China-Myanmar relations into a new era.
-- We need to draw a new blueprint for bilateral ties by strengthening strategic communication. Our two sides may continue to harness the vital role of high-level exchanges in guiding our relations, step up communication and coordination at all levels and share development experience. It is important that we continue to show strong mutual support on issues concerning each other's core interests. By deepening our comprehensive strategic cooperative partnership with a strategic and long-term perspective, we will make the idea of building a community with a shared future take root in the hearts and minds of our people. China supports Myanmar in advancing the peace and reconciliation process through political dialogue. The two sides may work together to ensure peace and stability along our border.
-- We need to bring new impetus to our mutually beneficial cooperation by deepening trade and economic exchanges. Our two sides need to deepen results-oriented Belt and Road cooperation and move from a conceptual stage to concrete planning and implementation in building the CMEC. Efforts need to be made to promote the three pillars of the CMEC, namely the Kyaukpyu Special Economic Zone, the China-Myanmar Border Economic Cooperation Zone and the New Yangon City. We also need to deepen practical and mutually beneficial cooperation in such areas as connectivity, electricity, energy, transportation, agriculture, finance and livelihood to deliver more benefits to both peoples.
-- We need to add new substance to our pauk-phaw friendship by scaling up exchanges and mutual learning. Our two sides have designated 2020 as the China-Myanmar Year of Culture and Tourism. Myanmar's charming natural scenery and fascinating cultural heritage will surely attract more and more Chinese tourists. To celebrate the 70th anniversary of our diplomatic ties, the two sides will host a string of events to expand exchanges and cooperation on education, religion, media, movies and TV programs. Such joint events will help strengthen public support for China-Myanmar friendship, thus cementing and re-energizing our pauk-phaw friendship.
-- We need to make new progress in regional peace and stability by enhancing coordination and cooperation. Confronted by rising unilateralism and protectionism, our two countries need to strengthen coordination and collaboration in the multilateral fora, such as in the United Nations and within the framework of East Asia cooperation and Lancang-Mekong cooperation. In this new era, we need to champion the spirit of the Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence, encourage efforts to foster a new type of international relations featuring mutual respect, fairness, justice and win-win cooperation, and strive to build a community with a shared future for mankind.
In China and Myanmar, people have similar sayings to the effect that more exchanges will bring families and friends closer together. In this 70th anniversary year, China-Myanmar relations stand at a new starting point. Let us work hand in hand to build an even closer China-Myanmar community with a shared future and write a new chapter for our millennia-old pauk-phaw friendship."
"Chengdu, 24 December 2019
President Moon Jae-in,
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe,
Let me welcome both of you to Chengdu for the eighth Trilateral Summit Meeting. Chengdu is an ancient yet modern city, a historical town with rich cultural heritage, and a front-runner in innovation and opening-up in Southwest China. It is where the intriguing stories of the Kingdom of Shu (A.D. 221-263) in the
Romance of the Three Kingdoms took place. And Poet Du Fu (A.D. 712-770)
of the Tang Dynasty, known as "Sage of Poetry", lived here for many years. I understand both these episodes are well-known to many in the ROK and Japan. Historical anecdotes also show that Korean and Japanese monks traveled to Chengdu on religious pilgrimages centuries ago.
This year marks the 20th anniversary of the trilateral cooperation. The seedling of this cooperation was planted two decades ago in the aftermath of the Asian financial crisis when leaders of our three countries held an informal meeting on the sidelines of the East Asian leaders' meetings in Manila. Twenty years on, the trilateral cooperation has grown into a lush tree thanks to the joint efforts of the three countries.
We have put in place an all-dimensional cooperation framework centering on the summit meeting, comprising 21 ministerial meetings and supported by the Trilateral Cooperation Secretariat (TCS). Our practical cooperation covers nearly 30 fields, from economy, trade, transportation, information and telecommunication, customs, to the environment, science and technology, agriculture and forestry. Last year, trilateral trade reached US$720 billion, and investment approached US$12 billion. Our people enjoy ever closer ties, with over 30 million visits exchanged last year. Mutual knowledge and understanding among us have increased.
The trilateral cooperation has bolstered our respective development and brought increasing business opportunities and real benefits to our companies and our people. It has well served the common interests of all our countries.
Colleagues,
We are meeting at a time of complex and profound changes in the international landscape. Geopolitical conflicts and hotspot issues keep flaring up amid mounting uncertainties and destabilizing factors. Slowing global growth and trade have put many major economies under downward pressure. Rising protectionism and unilateralism have seriously affected the global industrial chain and international division of labor. These challenges require collective responses from all countries.
At the second China International Import Expo, President Xi Jinping called for joint efforts to build an open world economy through cooperation, with innovation and for mutual benefits. Our three countries, as the powerhouse of the East Asian economy and a major driver of regional cooperation, must step up cooperation in a spirit of mutual help and partnership. While sustaining the momentum of our respective development, we must stand firmly by multilateralism and free trade, and move forward regional economic integration.
First, we need to jointly safeguard regional peace and stability. The situation on the Korean Peninsula has been a focus of attention. Realizing denuclearization and establishing a peace mechanism on the Peninsula is in the interest of all three countries. We need to leverage our respective strengths and intensify coordination and collaboration. Guided by the "dual-track approach" and the principle of "phased and synchronized progress", we need to properly address the legitimate concerns of all parties, identify ways for bridging differences, and facilitate progress in the talks between relevant parties, with a view to ultimately achieving enduring peace and security of our region.
Second, we need to jointly apply a new vision of security. Our world is confronted with growing non-traditional security challenges, such as terrorism, cybersecurity, climate change and major infectious diseases. These have become interwoven with traditional security threats brought by geopolitical tensions and regional hotspots, leading to a complex, volatile security situation prone to varied and interconnected challenges.
As the security challenges confronting humanity defy sovereign boundaries and proliferate worldwide in unconventional ways, no country can stay immune from their impacts or tackle them all by itself. We need to follow a new vision of common, comprehensive, cooperative and sustainable security, and work for the security of the whole region proceeding from our common security interests. Moves to enhance security cooperation should neither target third parties nor undermine regional stability.
Third, we need to jointly pursue openness and inclusiveness. In this increasingly globalized world, we need openness, not barriers; and we need cooperation, not "decoupling". We live in the same global village where our futures are interlinked. We need to build a new type of international relations and a community with a shared future for mankind in keeping with the principles of mutual respect, fairness, justice and win-win cooperation.
China's Belt and Road Initiative is a cooperation platform that belongs to the world. It advocates peace and cooperation, openness and inclusiveness, mutual learning and mutual benefit, and has opened up new space for the growth of Asia and the world. China welcomes the active participation of the ROK and Japan in this initiative.
Fourth, we need to jointly drive regional cooperation. Our three countries have a combined population of 1.6 billion accounting for 70 percent of East Asia's total; and our economies, with an aggregate GDP of nearly US$21 trillion, take up nearly 90 percent of the East Asian economy. It is thus incumbent upon us to shoulder the important task of facilitating shared progress and prosperity of our region.
We need to strengthen coordination and collaboration under the frameworks of ASEAN Plus Three, the East Asia Summit, the ASEAN Regional Forum and the Mekong sub-regional cooperation. We need to keep the focus of regional cooperation on East Asia and on development, and preserve and improve the existing East Asian cooperation architecture to better serve the needs of countries in this region.
Colleagues,
All three of our cultures share a saying to the effect that "One gains new knowledge by going through what one has learned". This essentially means that reviewing the past helps one better understand and shape the future. With the 20th anniversary as a new starting point in our common journey, it is highly meaningful that we take stock of the past and chart the course for the future.
Over the past 20 years, our practical cooperation has on the whole kept growing in breadth and depth. We are each other's important partners for development: our economies are highly complementary and our industries deeply integrated. We have formed a de facto economic community and a community of shared interests. Sometimes we may encounter problems and difficulties, yet we have kept to dialogue and consultation in seeking solutions, and engaged in cooperation for mutual benefit. The future holds even bigger opportunities and broader prospects for the trilateral cooperation.
China proposes that we advance cooperation in the following areas:
- Solidifying mutual trust to uphold the larger interest of cooperation. Political trust underpins and safeguards the trilateral cooperation. The resumption of the trilateral summit meeting last year after repeated interruptions did not come easily. We need to view each other's development in an objective and rational light, and engage in candid and in-depth strategic communication to maintain sound bilateral relations.
In the spirit of facing history squarely and shaping a brighter future, we need to respect each other's core interests and major concerns, stay focused on mutually beneficial cooperation, and keep to dialogue and consultation in addressing differences. This will create enabling conditions for deeper cooperation in various fields, and foster a sound international environment for our respective development.
- Enhancing overall planning to set the direction for future cooperation. We need to be future-minded and plan our cooperation from a strategic and long-term perspective. The
Trilateral Cooperation Vision for the Next Decade
to be adopted at this meeting will set out the direction and priorities of our cooperation. It will guide our efforts to deepen practical cooperation, forge partnership, and make the pie of shared interests bigger. The trilateral cooperation should contribute even more to our own development and to the prosperity and stability of our region and beyond.
- Accelerating FTA negotiations to boost regional economic integration. With our economies deeply integrated and providing important markets for each other, a closer trade arrangement would put us in a stronger position to tackle the uncertainties in the global economy. Last month, 15 participating countries of the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) announced the conclusion of overall negotiations. This is a major breakthrough in FTA development in East Asia that boosted market confidence in Asia and beyond. Our three countries are all staunch supporters of the RCEP. We need to play an active role in facilitating early conclusion of negotiations on the outstanding issues to make the agreement ready for formal signing next year as scheduled.
On this basis, we need to speed up the trilateral FTA negotiations and work for its early conclusion. A trilateral FTA with higher standards will further deepen our economic and trade cooperation, enhance the regional supply chain and bring about trade and investment liberalization and facilitation at a higher level. It will be our concrete action to uphold multilateralism and free trade.
- Boosting innovation cooperation to cultivate a new growth area. All three countries are major innovators with respective advantages and strengths in science and technology. More exchanges in policy, technology and personnel will help us share the fruits of innovation and raise the capabilities to innovate.
China proposes that we designate the year 2020 as Year of Science and Technology Innovation Cooperation to bolster our cooperation on basic research and technology R&D. We need to fully harness new technologies such as the internet, big data, artificial intelligence and 5G, promote cross-border e-commerce and foster future-oriented new industries and forms of business that better cater to our people's needs.
We will strengthen IPR protection and jointly create an open, cooperative and non-discriminatory environment for our innovation cooperation in science and technology. China suggests that we explore fin-tech cooperation and facilitate mobile payments to provide tourists with more convenient payment services.
- Increasing people-to-people exchanges to forge a closer bond of friendship. There is much we can do to boost people-to-people ties. Such signature programs as East Asian Cultural Cities, CAMPUS Asia and Local Government Exchange Conference have been highly popular. Sport is what all our people love and appreciate. We should enhance our dialogue and cooperation on the Olympics as all three of us have hosted or will host the Olympic and Paralympic Games, to bring our people closer through sport exchanges.
Comics is another shared passion among our young people. Next year, China will host the first Wukong Cup: Trilateral Teenager Comics Contest. It will be a great opportunity to promote our art exchanges, deepen friendship among the young people and pass on the baton of enduring friendship to the younger generation.
- Prioritizing people's wellbeing to advance sustainable development. The mission of the trilateral cooperation is to raise the quality of life of our people. We should work together to implement the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and intensify policy exchange and practical cooperation on health, aging and the environment with a view to bringing greater benefits and happiness to our people.
We will issue the
Joint Declaration on Active and Healthy Aging Cooperation
at this meeting. It will help us increase experience sharing, conduct joint research and jointly tackle population aging.
Marine plastics poses a challenge that merits greater attention. We need more exchanges on monitoring methods and prevention technologies, as well as research on the impact of marine plastics on marine and polar eco-environments. China proposes that we jointly launch an Initiative on Promoting Blue Economy Cooperation as a cooperation platform to promote the conservation and rehabilitation of the marine ecosystem, efficient use of resources and the development of emerging ocean industries.
The "Trilateral+X" modality we launched last year has produced a number of early harvest projects in environmental protection, health, disaster relief and other areas of sustainable development. China suggests that the financial institutions of our three countries set up a co-investment fund based on commercial and market principles to support the cooperation among us and with other parties.
Since its inception eight years ago, the TCS has taken an active part in the full range of the trilateral cooperation and played important role in increasing the influence of our cooperation. We hope the TCS will enhance its capacity and offer more professional services and smoother channels of engagement to the trilateral cooperation.
Colleagues,
Let me conclude by extending my congratulations to the ROK who will take over the chairmanship of the trilateral cooperation following this meeting. I am confident that with our joint efforts, the trilateral cooperation will achieve even greater success. China will work with the ROK and Japan to bring our all-round cooperation and partnership to a higher level and make new contributions to peace, stability and prosperity of our region and the world at large.
Thank you."
"Q1. This year marks the 70th anniversary of the founding of New China. What is your view of the international situation and China's diplomacy in 2019?
Wang:
The year 2019 is significant in the course of China's development. The CPC Central Committee with Comrade Xi Jinping as its core led the whole Party and people across the country to solemnly celebrate the 70th anniversary of the People's Republic of China. A more united, stable and prosperous China is proudly embarking on a new journey toward brighter development prospects. Standing in stark contrast to the effective governance of China is the disorder in many parts of the world. In 2019, quite a number of countries have seen political and social turmoil. Instability and uncertainty are on the rise in the international situation. A tug of war between unilateralism and multilateralism is unfolding across the world, and it will determine the future and destiny of humanity.
In 2019, China, weathering rain and storm, has forged ahead on the diplomatic front. Under the wise leadership of General Secretary Xi Jinping and the CPC Central Committee, we have pressed ahead, overcome challenges and achieved new, important advances.
In the face of external interference and provocation, we have stood firm, resisted them head on and never backed down. We have effectively defended our country's sovereignty, security and development rights and interests, and resolutely upheld the dignity of the country, nation and people.
In the face of volatility in the international situation, we have stayed committed to multilateralism and championed equity and justice. We have steadily developed relations with other major countries, and vigorously advanced mutually beneficial cooperation with neighboring and developing countries. We have spearheaded global governance and actively mediated various regional issues.
In the face of the sluggish world economy, we have continued to adhere to the principle of mutually beneficial cooperation, and successfully held the second Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation. At the second China International Import Expo, which attracted more participants than the first one, we announced new, major measures of opening-up. In this way, we have made new contributions to building an open world economy.
On the complex international stage, China has become a true pillar of world peace and stability and a key engine for global development and prosperity.
Q2. This year has seen close exchanges between Chinese and Russian leaders. What is your comment on the current China-Russia relations?
Wang:
This year marks the 70th anniversary of diplomatic ties between China and Russia. The relationship has broken new ground in a number of areas:
First, there has been a new characterization of our bilateral relations. President Xi Jinping and President Vladimir Putin, with their vision and political resolve, have upgraded the China-Russia relations to a comprehensive strategic partnership of coordination for a new era. This elevation has brought political trust between the two sides to an unprecedented level.
Second, practical cooperation has made new breakthroughs. Smooth progress has been made in creating synergy between the Belt and Road Initiative and the Eurasian Economic Union. Steady advances have been made in major bilateral projects in energy, aviation, space and connectivity. The east-route natural gas pipeline has gone into operation. Bilateral trade has exceeded the mark of US$100 billion.
Third, friendly exchanges have made new progress. The China-Russia year of sub-national cooperation and exchanges has been brought to a successful conclusion. The number of friendship states/provinces and cities has reached 146 pairs. The Chinese language has been included in Russia's unified state exam. Friendship between our peoples has been further strengthened.
Fourth, strategic coordination has reached a new level. China and Russia have shown firm mutual support on issues concerning each other's core interests, and worked together to resist attempts by external forces to keep us down. The two sides signed a joint statement on strengthening global strategic stability. We have enhanced back-to-back coordination in international affairs, and stood shoulder to shoulder in opposing power politics and bullying practices.
In the world today, the China-Russia relationship is the closest, strongest, most mature and most stable one between two major countries. It sets a high standard and a prime example for harmonious co-existence and win-win cooperation between countries. The China-Russia relationship has not reached its full potential; we can do still better. There is no limit to our cooperation; we must always strive to expand it. I am confident that under the guidance of our Presidents, China-Russia relations will continue to make history and scale new heights. They will bring more benefits to our two countries and peoples and play a vital role in international peace and stability.
Q3. This year marks the 40th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between China and the United States. How do you see the challenges for the relationship?
Wang:
The 40th anniversary of China-US diplomatic relations should have made this year an important opportunity for joint commemoration and new progress. Regrettably however, the US has taken a string of actions to obstruct and repress China in trade, science and technology, and has been meddling in a series of issues concerning China's territorial integrity and sovereignty and smearing China. The US actions not only undermined the mutual trust that the two sides built over four decades, but also swayed stability and development of the whole world. I would like to stress again that China will resolutely safeguard its core interests and legitimate rights to development. No one and no force can stop the historic march of the 1.4 billion Chinese people toward modernization. This said, regarding the problems and disagreements in bilateral interactions, China is always ready to have consultations with the US on the basis of mutual respect. The fact that China and the US recently reached agreement on a phase one trade deal shows that, when both sides demonstrate good faith, work in concert and communicate as equals, we can always find a solution to whatever issue that may come our way.
The China-US relationship has been through rain and shine and moved ahead amidst ups and downs in the past four decades. The most important thing that this period has taught us is that both countries stand to gain from cooperation and lose from confrontation. As President Xi Jinping has stressed repeatedly, cooperation is the only correct choice for the two countries. It is our hope that the US side will return to a fact-based and correct perception of China and a sensible and pragmatic policy toward China. We urge the US to work with us to put the relationship back on the track of sound development and realize the goal of no conflict or confrontation, mutual respect and win-win cooperation. Considering both the long-term interests of the Chinese and American peoples and the international responsibilities we shoulder as major countries, both sides need to and must find a way of peaceful co-existence between the world's largest developing and developed countries. Together, we must embark on a path of mutual benefit and win-win results that serves China, the US and the whole world.
Q4. What is your assessment of China's relationship with Europe? And your expectations for next year?
Wang:
The year 2019 has been a year of harvest for China-Europe relations. President Xi Jinping's successful overseas visits in 2019 started with Europe, and concluded with Europe as well. The leaders of Germany, France and Italy all made visits to China. The China-EU Summit and the China-CEEC Summit were both very successful. These intensive high-level interactions speak volumes about how both China and Europe value their relationship, and lend strong impetus to the deepening of cooperation between the two sides. China and the EU concluded negotiations for an agreement on geographical indications as scheduled. We are speeding up negotiations for a China-EU investment agreement. We are making progress in the Belt and Road cooperation. The membership of China-CEEC cooperation was enlarged for the first time. China and European countries reached consensus on strengthening global governance and many other major issues. Following the official inauguration of the new EU leadership earlier this month, President Xi Jinping and Premier Li Keqiang have had phone calls respectively with President Charles Michel and President Ursula von der Leyen. These interactions between Chinese and EU leaders have built consensus and set the course for the further development of China-EU relations.
As the world's two major civilizations and major forces, China and Europe stand together for a multi-polar world and greater democracy in international relations. We stand together for multilateralism and the basic norms of international relations. And we stand together for free trade and an open world economy. Our cooperation far outweighs our competition, and we agree much more than we disagree. We are partners, not rivals. We are friends, not enemies. Next year will mark the 45th anniversary of China-EU diplomatic relations. China is prepared to strengthen high-level exchanges with Europe to jointly take China-EU comprehensive strategic partnership to a new level. Working together, China and Europe can provide more stability to an otherwise uncertain world.
Q5. How will China bring about new progress in the Belt and Road cooperation?
Wang:
The second Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation was the most important diplomatic event hosted by China in 2019. Chaired by President Xi Jinping, it was a tremendous success. It was attended by 40 national leaders and heads of international organizations and more than 6,000 representatives of 150 countries and 92 international organizations. With 283 outcomes, the second Forum marked the start of a new journey in Belt and Road cooperation - one of high-quality development.
Thanks to the continuous efforts of all parties, we have refined the blueprint of Belt and Road cooperation, put forward more effective guidelines and identified clearer paths for implementation. This new vision is best captured by our commitment to the principle of extensive consultation, joint contribution and shared benefit; to open, green and clean cooperation; and to a high-standard, people-centered and sustainable approach. Next year, we will host the second United Nations Global Sustainable Transport Conference. It is an excellent opportunity for forging a global partnership for connectivity, for making new breakthroughs in the major connectivity initiatives of China-Europe Railway Express and the New International Land-Sea Trade Corridor, and for supporting the multilateral mechanisms and forums under the Belt and Road Initiative in playing their full roles. I am confident that with our collective efforts, we will draw more exciting and beautiful sketches in pursuing high-quality Belt and Road cooperation.
Q6. Unilateralism is dealing a serious blow to the international order. From your perspective, how should the international community tackle this challenge?
Wang:
Confronted with unilateralism, the international community has no choice but to join hands and firmly resist this perverse trend. If we give a free pass to unilateralism and the supremacy of unchecked national interests, the international order and system on which we live and thrive may collapse. That would be an unacceptable outcome for all of us, particularly small- and medium-sized countries.
As a responsible member of the international community, China has been a strong champion of multilateralism. Wherever he traveled in 2019, President Xi Jinping made China's voice heard. It is a voice of justice that rejects unilateralism, hegemonism and power politics in favor of multilateralism, the authority of the UN and the norms of international relations. President Xi has pointed out that our commitment to multilateralism requires us to safeguard peace and development for all, to uphold international fairness and equity and promote win-win results, and to reform the international governance system and build a community with a shared future for mankind. The goal, principle and direction he has set capture the essence of multilateralism of our times. They are being recognized and endorsed by more and more countries.
As we celebrate the 75th anniversary of the UN next year, China is ready to work with the rest of the world to uphold the shining torch of multilateralism, and drive away the darkness of unilateralism, and clear up the sky for world peace, stability and development for all.
Q7. What's your comment on the interference of some western countries in China's internal affairs? How has diplomacy played its role?
Wang:
The great renewal of the Chinese nation is a natural trend in human history. That said, there are unprecedented difficulties and challenges that come with it. The closer we get to this goal, the more likely that we will encounter disturbances or even disruptions. Strategically, we have the full resolve, confidence and patience. Moreover, we are gaining more resources, capability, confidence and conviction to overcome whatever hardships that come our way. To quote a Chinese poem that describes the bamboo growing in rocks, "It is strong and firm though struck and beaten without rest; careless of the wind from north or south, east or west." Any attempt to interfere in China's internal affairs or hold back China's development will be crushed by the wheels of history.
On Hong Kong, we firmly support the SAR government in ending the violence and chaos, restoring order, and exercising law-based governance. Time will prove that "one country, two systems" not only works and works well in Hong Kong, but also has the support of the people there.
On Taiwan, this year saw China establishing diplomatic relations with the Solomon Islands and resuming diplomatic ties with Kiribati. As the number of countries having diplomatic ties with China has increased to 180, the one-China consensus is more widely established in the international community than ever before.
On Xinjiang, we have effectively ensured the safety and well-being of the over 24 million fellow countrymen of different ethic groups there, giving no chance to terrorism and radical ideologies. Our de-radicalization efforts have responded well to the call of the UN and are becoming an important part of the global fight against terrorism.
To quote another poem that depicts the resolve of our forefathers to defend the ancient Great Wall, "Were the winged general of Dragon city here; the tartar steeds would not dare to cross the frontier." It falls on China's diplomatic service and everyone working on the diplomatic front to safeguard the sovereignty and security of the country, which brooks no violation whatsoever, and advance China's legitimate development rights and interests. It is such an important responsibility that allows not even the slightest error. Under the unified leadership of the CPC Central Committee, we will continue to build up an invincible Great Wall of defense for our national interests.
Q8. What is your take on the current China-DPRK relations? How do you evaluate the current situation on the Korean Peninsula?
Wang:
This year is a milestone in China-DPRK relations. We celebrated the 70th anniversary of China-DPRK diplomatic ties. General Secretary Xi Jinping paid a historic and successful visit to the DPRK. We have further enriched our traditional friendship in keeping with the times, and opened a new chapter in the relations between the two parties and two countries. And the Peninsula issue has returned to the course of political settlement.
There has been a new round of tensions recently on the Peninsula. It is mainly because the Singapore Summit Joint Statement reached by the DPRK and the US has not been effectively implemented, and the legitimate concerns of the DPRK have not been taken seriously or addressed. The window of opportunity for peace is once again shifting, and the chances for dialogue quickly fading. It is under such circumstances that China and Russia assumed responsibilities and tabled a draft resolution at the UN Security Council, which is aimed to maintain the momentum of political resolution for the nuclear issue and prevent the situation from deteriorating or even spiraling out of control. In this context, China calls on the US to take concrete steps as soon as possible to deliver what has been agreed in Singapore. We encourage the DPRK and the US to work out a feasible roadmap for establishing a permanent peace regime and realizing complete denuclearization on the Peninsula. China will continue to play a constructive role to that end.
Q9. What new progress has China made this year in its relations with other developing countries?
Wang:
Developing countries are our true partners in development and "natural allies" in international affairs. In 2019, China has deepened South-South cooperation with fellow developing countries, opening up a new horizon for cooperation toward shared progress and prosperity.
The Coordinators' Meeting on the Implementation of the Follow-up Actions of the FOCAC Beijing Summit was successfully held in Beijing. The follow-up actions, which are in full swing, have been held to high standards and produced early and encouraging results to the benefit of Chinese and African peoples. China-Africa cooperation has remained a pace-setter for international cooperation with Africa, and inspired more cooperation between other major countries and Africa, thus creating an enabling international environment for our African brothers and sisters.
China's relations with Latin American and Caribbean countries and with Arab countries have continued to make steady and solid progress, with deepening and better-structured cooperation carried out in various fields. The Presidents of China and Brazil have exchanged visits this year.
The China-CELAC Joint Plan of Action for Cooperation on Priority Areas (2019-2021)
is being well implemented. Exchange and cooperation programs under the China-Arab States Cooperation Forum are making solid progress.
As the largest developing country, China stands firm with the developing world. We will follow the principle advocated by President Xi Jinping ─ the principle of pursuing the greater good and shared interests, and strengthen solidarity and cooperation with other developing countries. We will continue to support the legitimate aspirations of developing countries and advance the shared interests of the developing world.
Q10. Could you please update us on what China has achieved in neighborhood diplomacy this year?
Wang:
There are many highlights in China's neighborhood diplomacy this year. They can be summed up in three categories.
First, we have improved and developed relations with our neighbors in an all-round way. President Xi Jinping and Prime Minister Narendra Modi had a successful second summit in Chennai and charted the course for the steady growth of China-India relations. China and Japan reached a ten-point consensus on improving and growing bilateral ties, giving the relationship a strong momentum to return to the right track. China-ASEAN relations have entered a new stage of all-round development, as evidenced by the important progress made in the consultation on a Code of Conduct in the South China Sea and greater stability in the region. President Xi attended both the summit of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) and the summit of the Conference on Interaction and Confidence Building Measures in Asia, elevating China's relations with Central Asian countries and the development of the SCO to a new level.
Second, important progress has been made in regional cooperation. With China's active participation and contribution, text-based negotiations were concluded for the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership, and a timeline drawn up for its formal signing. What's more, the full entry into force of the China-ASEAN FTA Upgrading Protocol and the eighth Trilateral Summit Meeting among China, the Republic of Korea and Japan held in China will inject fresh impetus to the trilateral cooperation and to the building of an East Asia Economic Community.
Third, overall stability has been maintained in the region. With regard to the Korean Peninsula, China has been vigorously promoting talks for peace, and China's idea of a package solution to the peace and denuclearization of the Peninsula through phased and synchronized actions is becoming the common understanding of various parties. On Afghanistan, as part of its shuttle diplomacy, China has facilitated the intra-Afghan dialogue and the China-Afghanistan-Pakistan and the China-Russia-US consultation, and hosted the first China-Russia-US-Pakistan four-party meeting. During the India-Pakistan conflict, China supported the efforts of the two sides to defuse tensions and manage differences through dialogue. China has served as a mediator between Myanmar and Bangladesh to encourage a negotiated solution to their outstanding issues.
Q11. This year has seen important progress in the consultations on a Code of Conduct (COC) in the South China Sea. Are you confident about its final conclusion?
Wang:
The consultations on the COC are steadily moving forward. The first reading was completed ahead of schedule. During the recent China-ASEAN Summit, countries agreed on a common goal of concluding the consultations in 2021 or even earlier. This represents an aspiration shared by all sides for the continued improvement of the situation in the South China Sea. It also demonstrates the sense of responsibility that China, the largest littoral state of the South China Sea, holds.
As an upgraded and strengthened version of the
Declaration on the Conduct of Parties in the South China Sea
(DOC), the COC will include a set of high-quality regional rules that are more substantive and responsive to the actual needs of the region. The final conclusion and implementation of the COC will secure greater stability in the South China Sea, help us manage the differences more effectively, and further promote the mutually-beneficial cooperation among all sides. At the same time, the legitimate and lawful rights and interests of countries from outside the region will be protected in earnest. We believe that as long as China and ASEAN countries work in concert toward the same goal, the consultations will be completed on schedule. In this connection, we hope that non-regional countries will respect the efforts made by China and ASEAN countries and refrain from doing anything that disrupts the consultation process.
Q12. The Middle East is far from being peaceful. What role has China played for the peace and stability of this region?
Wang:
Peace in the Middle East bears on the fundamental interests of all regional countries and the stability and development of the world at large. With instability in the Middle East, the world can hardly sustain peace.
China is always a peace maker in the Middle East. We have upheld the authority and effectiveness of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) and encouraged parties concerned to resolve differences through dialogue and consultation. We are committed to working on the basis of the two-state solution and the Arab Peace Initiative to break the stalemate in the Palestine-Israel peace talks at an early date. On regional hotspots such as Syria, Libya, South Sudan and Yemen, we have been promoting peace talks, and proposed China's solutions. We have sent a total of 27,000 peacekeepers to the region and provided massive humanitarian aid to the refugees of some regional countries.
China always promotes stability in the Middle East. At the first Middle East Security Forum hosted by China, we called for efforts to build a common, comprehensive, cooperative and sustainable security architecture in the region. Our four-point initiative of upholding political settlement, defending fairness and justice, leveraging the role of the UN, and creating synergy was warmly received by the participating countries.
China is always a contributor to the development in the Middle East. We have acted on the vision of "development for peace" and helped countries in the region to speed up industrialization and build capacity for self-generated development through Belt and Road cooperation.
Q13. President Xi Jinping's vision for a community with a shared future for mankind has been widely endorsed. How will the vision develop, as you see it?
Wang:
The world is undergoing profound changes unseen in a century. This is an era of major development, transformation and adjustment. General Secretary Xi Jinping, with a keen understanding of the trend of history and the overall and long-term interests of all countries, has put forward this important and creative vision of building a community with a shared future for mankind. That is China's answer to what puzzles our world and China's solution to the challenges of our times. The vision transcends differences in social systems, development stage, ethnicity and religion. It reflects a broad global perspective and a deep insight into how history moves forward. From the moment it was proposed, this vision has been highly commended and warmly received by the international community.
The call for a community with a shared future for mankind is the very essence of Xi Jinping Thought on Diplomacy and the hallmark of major-country diplomacy with Chinese characteristics in the new era. Following the direction given by General Secretary Xi Jinping, we will uphold mutual respect and equal-footed consultation and follow a new path of state-to-state relations featuring dialogue rather than confrontation, and partnership rather than alliance. We will seek peaceful settlement of disputes, bridge differences through cooperation, and develop a fairer and more equitable global governance system. We will pursue cooperation for win-win outcomes, promote trade and investment liberalization and facilitation, and work toward an open world economy. And we will advocate respect for the diversity of civilizations, and promote exchanges, mutual learning and inclusiveness among civilizations. As long as we stay focused and work together with all other countries, this great goal of building a community with a shared future for mankind is surely within reach and our planet will enjoy a brighter future.
Q14. How do you envision China's diplomacy in the coming year?
Wang:
Next year will be a year of great significance for the renewal of the Chinese nation. In 2020, China will eradicate extreme poverty and build a moderately prosperous society in all respects, meeting its first centenary goal.
In the coming year, all of us working on the diplomatic front will rally closely around the CPC Central Committee with Comrade Xi Jinping at its core and earnestly act on Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era and Xi Jinping Thought on Diplomacy. We will continue to forge ahead and strive to break new ground for major-country diplomacy with Chinese characteristics. We will fulfill our responsibilities to our country, to the Chinese nation, and to the world and all humankind.
We will bear in mind both domestic and international dynamics, serve major national development strategies, and foster an external environment conducive to our goal of building a moderately prosperous society in all respects. We will take firm and proper measures to counter all sorts of external risks and challenges and defend our sovereignty, security and development interests.
We will continue to deepen global partnerships, by steadily moving forward our relations with other major countries, by advancing converging interests with neighboring countries, and by cementing our solidarity and friendship with other developing countries. We will continue to champion multilateralism, engage deeply in global governance, and make more Chinese input to the joint response to global challenges. We will work actively to expand international cooperation and promote high-quality Belt and Road cooperation to forge a global partnership for connectivity.
We will strive to modernize our system and capacity for diplomacy to better communicate to the world the success story of the Communist Party of China, of socialism with Chinese characteristics, and of the united and hardworking Chinese people."
"MFA Lanting, 26 November 2019
Excellencies,
Distinguished Guests,
Welcome back to Lanting. Let me begin by extending a warm welcome to Secretary Wang Jianjun, Governor Liu Ning, all the diplomatic envoys and friends from the press.
Shining in the limelight of our event today is Qinghai, a province located on the "Roof of the World". It is one of the places closest to the sky, and a pristine land where man and nature co-exist in harmony. A success story is now unfolding in Qinghai about the interactive development between ecological environment and sustainable growth.
Qinghai is a treasure trove of China's ecological resources.
The Yellow River, the Yangtze River and the Lancang River originate from here, nourishing the country and the people for generations. The Origin of the Three Rivers is known as China's "water tower". The Qinghai Lake, an important reservoir of water sources, provides habitat for nearly 300,000 water birds every year. Here in Qinghai, man and nature have formed a community of shared future where people protect the eco-environment like protecting their eyes.
Qinghai is a highland of China's green development.
It is home to China's largest circular economy pilot zone. It boasts the country's largest capacity of renewable energy installation as well as power generation. Its clean energy supply ranks first around the world. The Beijing Daxing International Airport that recently went into service is powered by clean energy from Qinghai. With a focus on green development, people in Qinghai are making great strides toward high-quality development.
Qinghai is an important hub along the Silk Road Economic Belt.
A meeting place of the ancient road linking the capital of Tang Dynasty and Tibet and the Tea-Horse Road, Qinghai connects China with its friendly neighbors to the southwest. It has witnessed the long-standing friendship between Han and Tibetan ethnic communities. For hundreds of years, people of Han, Tibetan, Mongol and Hui ethnic groups have come together and learned from each other, creating diverse cultures and a great history of ethnic solidarity and common progress. Today, Qinghai is an active player in the Belt and Road cooperation. More and more China-Europe freight trains are passing through the province. And Qinghai is further expediting opening-up and cooperation with the outside.
The great achievement by Qinghai is an epitome of China's development and rejuvenation, and a telling example of our success in promoting the modernization of governance. There are various models of governance and different paths to development in the world. We always believe that each country should be allowed to choose what suits its national realities best. China has made tremendous progress in developing socialism with Chinese characteristics. Whatever challenges may lay ahead, we will stay on this path with a strong resolve, which we believe over time will lead to a even more promising future.
Your Excellencies,
Distinguished guests,
As 2019 draws to an end, we see a world confronted with challenges more daunting than before as well as ever stronger aspiration for peace, stability and development shared by people around the world. In conducting China's diplomacy, we have looked beyond the changing landscape and worked actively to foster a community with a shared future for mankind. We have remained steady in a volatile world and taken solid steps toward building a new type of international relations. And we have remained clear-eyed and made proactive efforts to shape the course of global governance reform. No matter how the world evolves, we will stand firmly for multilateralism and against unilateralism, for win-win cooperation, global partnership and an open world economy and against all forms of hegemony and power politics. China will always be an anchor for human progress and development.
The year 2020, which is just around the corner, will be a landmark year for China's development. We are on track to realize the first centenary goal. Absolute poverty, which has haunted the nation for several thousand years, will soon become a thing of the past. It is also the year when China will complete the building of a moderately prosperous society. Since 2016, the Foreign Ministry has held 21 events to present Chinese provinces, regions and municipalities to the world. Next year, we will present more central and western parts of China with a focus on the central tasks of poverty reduction, all-round development and modernizing governance. With this, we hope to help build an even stronger domestic economy and create greater opportunities for win-win cooperation between these provinces and the world.
Before I conclude, I highly recommend that you all visit Qinghai to see and experience the province in person. I hope you will enjoy the beauty of China's nature in the new era, its development, harmony, and happy lives of the Chinese people.
Thank you."
"Brasilia, 14 November 2019
Your Excellency President Jair Bolsonaro,
Your Excellency President Vladimir Putin,
Your Excellency Prime Minister Narendra Modi,
Your Excellency President Cyril Ramaphosa,
It gives me great pleasure to join you in this meeting in Brasilia. Let me first thank President Bolsonaro for the kind invitation and gracious hospitality.
This is my third visit to Brazil in ten years. Stepping once again on this land of vibrancy, I am deeply impressed by its vastness and natural endowment, by the friendly people, and by the great promise the country holds.
We are meeting at a time when crucial developments are taking place in the world economy and international landscape. A burgeoning round of technological revolution and industrial transformation has created more opportunities for countries across the globe to achieve leapfrog development. Meanwhile, the unstoppable rise of emerging markets and developing countries has injected strong impetus to the reform of the global economic governance system. Nevertheless, there are also causes for concern: rising protectionism and unilateralism; greater deficit of governance, development and trust; and growing uncertainties and destabilizing factors in the world economy.
Faced with profound changes rarely seen in a century, major emerging markets and developing countries like us must grasp the trend of the times. We must respond to the call of our people, and shoulder our responsibilities. We must remain true to our unwavering commitment to development and strengthen solidarity and cooperation for the well-being of our people and for the development of our world.
- Let us work to foster a security environment of peace and stability.
Our world has yet to achieve full peace. As we speak, tensions continue in regional security situations; hotspot issues keep emerging; traditional and non-traditional security threats are interwoven. Challenges of a global nature are becoming more prominent.
We need to take it our aim to safeguard peace and development for all; we need to uphold fairness and justice and promote win-win results; we need to base our efforts on international law and widely recognized norms of international relations; we need to champion and put into practice multilateralism. It is important that we uphold the purposes and principles of the UN Charter and the UN-centered international system, oppose hegemonism and power politics, and take a constructive part in settling geopolitical flash points. We can use BRICS mechanisms, including the meetings of our ministers of foreign affairs/international relations and high representatives for security issues, the working groups on counter-terrorism and cybersecurity, and the regular meetings among our permanent representatives to multilateral institutions, to maintain close strategic communication and coordination and speak in one voice for a more just and equitable international order.
- Let us pursue greater development prospects through openness and innovation.
Development is what really matters to all. Many of the world's problems are rooted in unbalanced and inadequate development. We must therefore seize the opportunities that come with reform and innovation. We need to deepen the BRICS Partnership on New Industrial Revolution, and strive for more productive cooperation in such fields as trade and investment, digital economy, and connectivity. These efforts will surely lend impetus to economic growth and high-quality development in our five countries.
At present, economic globalization is encountering setbacks, which reveal, to a certain degree, the flaws existing in the global governance system. We the BRICS countries need to play our role as responsible major countries. We need to advocate extensive consultation, joint contribution and shared benefits in global governance, and push for reform of the global economic governance system. We need to stand firm against protectionism, uphold the WTO-centered multilateral trading system, and increase the voice and influence of emerging markets and developing countries in international affairs. We need to prioritize development in the global macro policy framework, follow through the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Paris Agreement on climate change, and promote coordinated progress in the economic, social and environmental spheres.
- Let us promote mutual learning through people-to-people exchanges.
Human history is one of civilizations living and prospering together in diversity. Countries, regions and ethnic groups with varied histories, religions and customs have offered inspirations to each other and together contributed to a diverse and colorful world.
We the BRICS countries have many best practices to offer when it comes to cultural interactions. Over recent years, we have carried out flourishing cultural exchanges. Film festivals, sports games as well as film and documentary co-production have rolled in to the delight of our people, thus creating a bridge for our people to be brought still closer together. We need to sustain and build up this momentum to take our people-to-people exchanges to greater breadth and depth. On that basis, we can leverage "BRICS Plus" cooperation as a platform to increase dialogue with other countries and civilizations and win BRICS more friends and partners.
Dear Colleagues,
This year marks the 70th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China. Over the past seven decades, working under the leadership of the Communist Party of China, the resilient and assiduous Chinese people have blazed a trail of socialism with Chinese characteristics and embarked on an epic journey toward national rejuvenation.
Going forward, China will open up still wider. We will import more goods and services, ease market access for foreign investments, and step up intellectual property protection. With these efforts, we will break new ground in pursing all-dimensional, multi-tiered and all-sectoral opening-up in China.
China will continue to act in the principle of extensive consultation, joint contribution and shared benefits, and pursue open, green, and clean cooperation under the Belt and Road Initiative. We will continue to follow a high-standard, people-centered, and sustainable approach to promote high-quality Belt and Road cooperation with partner countries.
China will stay committed to an independent foreign policy of peace and to the path of peaceful development. We will continue to enhance friendship and cooperation with all other countries on the basis of the Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence. To be more specific, China will deliver the follow-ups to the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC) and work with Africa for an even stronger China-Africa community with a shared future; China will pursue closer cooperation with Latin America and the Caribbean (LAC) in political, economic, trade, cultural, and regional and international affairs and build a China-LAC community with a shared future and common progress; and China will take a long-term perspective, deepen the Asia-Pacific partnership, and work for an Asia-Pacific community with a shared future of openness and inclusiveness, innovation-driven growth, greater connectivity, and mutually beneficial cooperation. All in all, China will work with the rest of the international community toward the goal of building a new type of international relationship and of building a community with a shared future for mankind.
Colleagues,
A review of historic achievements gives ample room of expectation for the future. As we enter the second "Golden Decade" of BRICS cooperation, let us work in concert and with continued efforts to write a new chapter in not only BRICS cooperation but also South-South cooperation and the mutually beneficial cooperation of countries around the world.
Thank you."
"Keynote Speech by H.E. Xi Jinping
President of the People's Republic of China
At the Opening Ceremony of the Second China International Import Expo
Shanghai, 5 November 2019
Your Excellency President Emmanuel Macron,
Your Excellencies Prime Minister Andrew Holness, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, and Prime Minister Ana Brnabić,
Your Excellencies Speakers of Parliament,
Your Excellencies Heads of International Organizations,
Your Excellencies Heads of Delegations,
Distinguished Guests,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
In this lovely season tinted with deep autumn hues, it gives me great pleasure to get together with you by the Huangpu River. I now declare open the second China International Import Expo!
At the outset, on behalf of the Chinese government and people as well as in my own name, a hearty welcome to all the distinguished guests from afar! To the many old and new friends gathered here from across the world, I give you my warm greetings and best wishes!
A year ago in this same place, the inaugural China International Import Expo was successfully held. Today, we are happy to be joined by even more friends in the second Expo that carries on the theme of "New Era, Shared Future". I trust that you will all find your participation in the event worthwhile and rewarding!
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
At last year's Expo, I announced the initiatives China was to take in the five areas of further opening-up and spelt out three specific steps for Shanghai to open wider to the world. One year on, these initiatives and steps have been by and large put in place. The Shanghai Pilot Free Trade Zone now has a Lingang special area, and six other new pilot free trade zones have been set up in other provinces of the country. The Shanghai Stock Exchange launched a sci-tech innovation board, with a registration system being piloted for the listing of companies. In the Yangtze River Delta area, a plan for integrated development of the region has been introduced as a national strategy. At the national level, a
Foreign Investment Law
will enter into force on 1 January next year. A management system combining pre-establishment national treatment and the negative list has been effected nationwide. Major progress is being made in increasing imports to boost consumption and in bringing down the tariff level. For last year's Expo, during my bilateral events with foreign leaders, 98 initiatives were agreed upon, of which 23 have now been completed, 47 are making good progress, and 28 are on track of steady implementation.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
Economic globalization represents the trend of history. Like the world's great rivers, the Yangtze, the Nile, the Amazon and the Danube - they all surge forward in relentless flow, and nothing can stop their mighty movement, not the current of undertows or hidden shoals or rocks beneath the water.
Of the problems confronting the world economy, none can be resolved by a single country alone. We must all put the common good of humanity first rather than place one's own interest above the common interest of all. We must have a more open mindset and take more open steps, and work together to make the pie of the global market even bigger. We need to strengthen the mechanisms for sharing benefits globally, and explore new ways of international cooperation. The goal is to give more impetus to economic globalization and remove impediments as much as we could.
For that to happen, I want to propose the following:
First, let us work together to build an open world economy through cooperation.
As global value and supply chains continue to develop, countries are inter-connected with each other, and integration of their economy is the order of the day. Distances between countries are getting shorter, and interactions among countries are growing, hence the probability of differences and frictions. The right solution lies in consultation and cooperation. All problems could be settled in the spirit of equality, mutual understanding and accommodation. We need to promote development through opening-up and deepen exchanges and cooperation among us. We need to "join hands" with each other instead of "letting go" of each other's hands. We need to "tear down walls", not to "erect walls". We need to stand firm against protectionism and unilateralism. We need to continually bring down trade barriers, optimize global value and supply chains, and jointly foster market demand.
Second, let us work together to build an open world economy with innovation.
Innovation-driven development is essential to sustained growth of the world economy. What we are seeing is a new round of scientific and technological revolution and industrial transformation. It has reached a historic juncture when major breakthroughs are within sight. Countries need to step up cooperation in innovation. We need to facilitate integration of science and technology with economic growth, and increase the sharing of innovation results. We need to remove barriers that hamper the flow of knowledge, technology, talents and other factors of innovation, and support our businesses in technical exchanges and cooperation on their own accord. This is a way to unleash the potential for innovation. And, to benefit mankind with the better use of knowledge, we need to tighten the protection of intellectual property. The least desirable is for us to stifle the flow of knowledge, or to create or even widen the technology divide among us.
Third, let us work together to build an open world economy for mutual benefits.
We need to work toward the vision of inclusive and mutually beneficial development. We need to work together to safeguard the international order underpinned by the purposes and principles of the UN Charter, uphold the core values and basic principles of the multilateral trading system, promote trade and investment liberalization and facilitation, and make economic globalization more open, inclusive, balanced and beneficial to all. We need to work in real earnest to implement the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and increase support for the Least Developed Countries so that the benefits of development will reach more countries and peoples.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
Standing at a new historical starting point, China will open its door only wider to the world. The Communist Party of China has just concluded the fourth plenary session of the 19th Central Committee. A decision has been made to further uphold and improve the socialist system with Chinese characteristics and to modernize the country's system and capacity for governance. That included a host of significant measures to deepen reform and opening-up. China will adhere to its fundamental state policy of opening-up and stay committed to opening-up to promote reform, development and innovation. This will bring about opening-up at an even higher level.
First, China will continue to open up its market.
China has a population of 1.4 billion. Its middle-income population is the biggest in the world. The huge Chinese market points to a potential that is simply unlimited. The Chinese people often say, "The world is a big place, and I want to see just more of it." What I want to say to you today is that the Chinese market is such a big one that you should all come and see what it has to offer. China will better leverage the fundamental role of domestic consumption in economic development and foster a more robust domestic market to boost growth at home and create more room for global growth. China will give greater importance to import. We will continue to lower tariffs and institutional transaction costs, develop demonstration zones to promote import trade by creative means, and import more high-quality goods and services from around the world. We will take steps to promote balanced development of both imports and exports, of trade in goods and services, of two-way trade and investment, and of trade and industry. This way, we will ensure a free yet orderly flow of both international and domestic factors of production, improve the efficient allocation of resources, and deepen integration of markets.
Second, China will continue to optimize its opening-up structure.
China's opening-up is all-dimensional and all-sectoral. A new structure of all-out opening-up is quick in the making. China will continue to encourage bold trials and experiments in pilot free trade zones and quicken the development of the Hainan Free Trade Port as pacesetters of opening-up in China. China will continue to implement integrated regional development strategies for the Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei region, the Yangtze River Economic Belt, the Yangtze River Delta region, and the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area, and draw up a new national strategy for environmental protection and high-quality development in the Yellow River basin. The purpose is to seek greater synergy of opening-up among different parts of the country.
Third, China will continue to improve the business environment.
Proper business environment provides the necessary condition for enterprises to survive and thrive. On 24 October, the World Bank released its
Doing Business
Report 2020, which ranks China 31st, up by15 places from last year's ranking of 46th. Last month, China issued a regulation on optimizing the business environment. Going forward, China will continue to remove major constraints on economic development, gear up reforms regarding key links and areas, and modernize the system and capacity for governance as an institutional support for high-standard opening-up and high-quality development. China will continue to foster an enabling business environment that is based on market principles, governed by law, and up to international standards. We will give foreign investments greater market access to more sectors, shorten the negative list further, and improve institutions for investment promotion and protection and for information reporting. With regard to IP protection, we will cultivate an environment that appreciates the value of knowledge, improve the legal framework, step up law enforcement, and enhance protection through both civil and criminal justice systems.
Fourth, China will continue to deepen multilateral and bilateral cooperation.
China is a champion for international cooperation and a supporter of multilateralism. China supports necessary reforms to the WTO so that the organization can play a bigger role in promoting openness and development and the multilateral trading regime can be more authoritative and effective. Later this afternoon, the Chinese side will host an Informal WTO Ministerial Meeting. We look forward to candid exchanges that will lead to joint actions to improve global economic governance. I am happy to note that yesterday, 15 countries taking part in the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) concluded text-based negotiations, and I hope the agreement will be signed and enter into force at an early date. China will be happy to conclude high-standard free trade agreements with more countries. We will speed up negotiations on a China-EU investment agreement, a China-Japan-ROK FTA, and a China-Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) FTA. We will stay actively engaged in cooperation within the United Nations, the G20, APEC, and BRICS to move economic globalization forward.
Fifth, China will continue to advance Belt and Road cooperation.
To date, China has signed 197 documents on Belt and Road cooperation with 137 countries and 30 international organizations. China will follow the principle of extensive consultation, joint contribution and shared benefits, the philosophy of open, green and clean cooperation, and a high-standard, people-centered and sustainable approach to promote high-quality Belt and Road cooperation.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
Looking forward, China will follow the new development approach and the strategy of innovation-driven development, and redouble our efforts to foster new growth drivers by shifting the growth model, improving the economic structure, and creating new growth momentum. We believe such efforts will not only bring China high-quality development but also new growth opportunities for the global economy.
I have faith in the bright prospects of China's economic development. China's development, viewed through the lens of history, is an integral part of the lofty cause of human progress. China will reach out its arms and offer countries in the world more opportunities of market, investment and growth. Together, we can achieve development for all.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
The Chinese civilization has always valued peace under heaven and harmony among nations. Let us all work in that spirit and contribute to an open global economy and to a community with a shared future for mankind.
Thank you."
"4 November 2019
Prime Minister Prayut Chan-o-cha,
Colleagues,
It gives me great pleasure to attend the 22nd ASEAN Plus Three (APT) Summit. On behalf of the Chinese government, I would like to express my sincere thanks to our host Thailand for its thoughtful preparations and arrangements for the Summit.
APT cooperation, which was initiated in the aftermath of the Asian financial crisis, has traversed an extraordinary journey. In the past 20 years and more, thanks to our joint efforts, the APT framework has continued to strengthen with expanding and deepening cooperation, contributing to the steady progress of regional economic integration. Deemed a successful example of multilateral cooperation, APT cooperation has delivered benefits to the countries and peoples in the region, and boosted economic growth in Asia and beyond. These hard-won achievements deserve to be cherished, and the valuable experience gained therefrom should be carried forward.
As we meet, the world is seeing profound and complex changes. Slowing global growth, sluggish trade and investment worldwide, and notably rising protectionism are shaking market confidence and posing new risks and challenges to the development of East Asian countries and APT cooperation. As underpinning forces for regional prosperity and stability, APT countries are duty-bound to strengthen unity and collaboration. Together, we must firmly stand for the international system with the UN at its core and the WTO-centered multilateral trading regime, vigorously advance regional economic integration, firmly pursue open and inclusive development with win-win cooperation, and tackle risks and challenges head on. This will help broaden our space of development and inject a fresh impetus into the steady growth of the regional and global economy.
Colleagues,
Given our diversity and strong economic complementarity, there exists a broad room for cooperation among APT countries. We need to further unleash the potential to seek more substantive progress in APT cooperation, and steer East Asian cooperation toward higher-quality development. In this context, I propose that we intensify our efforts in the following areas:
First, bringing economic integration to a higher level.
Asia is one of the most economically integrated regions in the world. Most of the new free trade agreements since 2013 are signed mainly by Asian countries. APT countries, representing the bulk of Asia's economy, have a total trade volume of over US$10 trillion, almost half of which is intra-regional trade. With the ASEAN Economic Community realized, over 90 percent of tariff items in intra-ASEAN trade have been eliminated.
China, Japan and the ROK are ASEAN's important trade and investment partners. Last year, ASEAN's free trade arrangements with China, Japan and the ROK generated a total trade volume of close to US$870 billion, up by 6.8 percent year on year. And the three countries' investment in ASEAN countries grew by 10 percent to reach US$38 billion.
Thanks to the joint efforts of all parties, 15 RCEP participating countries have concluded text-based negotiations and essentially all their market access issues, and are committed to resolving the few outstanding issues by the end of this year, to make the agreement ready for signing at next year's RCEP Summit. This is a major breakthrough in building a free trade area in East Asia that covers the largest population, the most diverse membership and boasts the greatest development potential. The conclusion of the RCEP will strongly boost trade and investment liberalization and facilitation.
APT countries, accounting for a large part of the RCEP, have been strong supporters throughout the negotiations, and will be direct beneficiaries. As such, we should play a positive role in facilitating the signing of the agreement as soon as possible. The successful conclusion of the RCEP will put us at a new starting point, and make us more confident in speeding up the China-Japan-ROK FTA negotiations and building an industrial chain and specialization structure in East Asia based on our comparative advantages. These efforts will be conducive to fostering a higher level of economic integration in our region, and put us on course toward an East Asia Economic Community (EAEC).
Second, supporting regional connectivity.
Connectivity is an important foundation for East Asian economic integration. China supports Thailand's proposal of issuing the
APT Leaders' Statement on Connecting the Connectivities
Initiative
at this year's Summit, as it will help forge a synergy of our efforts in boosting regional connectivity. As a cooperation platform for common and inclusive development, the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) has drawn a strong interest from regional countries. Yesterday, ASEAN leaders and I issued the
Joint Statement on Synergizing MPAC 2025 and the BRI.
China is ready to work with all parties to enhance the synergy between the BRI and other regional connectivity initiatives, follow a high-standard, people-centered and sustainable approach and promote open, clean and green development. We need to strengthen cooperation on economic corridors and industrial parks, and improve institutional connectivity including that of market rules and standards, so as to promote interconnected and integrated development of regional countries.
Third, enhancing regional financial cooperation.
Financial cooperation is a priority for the APT framework. Parties need to act on the vision set out in the
Strategic Directions of ASEAN+3 Finance Process,
and work to improve the regional economic governance architecture through financial cooperation and serve the need for regional economic integration.
The role of the Chiang Mai Initiative Multilateralization (CMIM) and AMRO needs to be fully leveraged to upgrade the regional financial safety net and build up East Asia's capacity to defuse financial risks and maintain steady economic growth. We welcome the completion of the first periodic review of the CMIM Agreement and support further efforts to explore using local currencies to make the CMIM safer, more effective and readily available. Meanwhile, the use of local currencies in regional trade and investment should also be increased. We support AMRO in strengthening its economic surveillance capacity. We suggest efforts be made to develop local currency bond markets, implement the new ABMI Mid-Term Road Map and mobilize more private capital in the region to invest in the infrastructure sector.
We also need to strengthen FinTech cooperation in joint research, information sharing and regulation. Last month, the inaugural meeting of the APT Inter-Bank Association was successfully held in Thailand, which will help further diversify financing channels in the region.
Fourth, promoting sustainable development.
Over the years, APT countries have engaged in extensive cooperation on poverty reduction, aging and food security. China will work with other APT countries to implement the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and share experience through the East Asia Cooperation Initiative on Poverty Reduction and further enhance APTERR.
China will do what it can to narrow the development gap and achieve common prosperity in the region through sub-regional cooperation frameworks, including the Lancang-Mekong and the China- BIMP-EAGA cooperation. We support the establishment of the APT Ministerial Meeting on Disaster Management and will be happy to host its first meeting next year. We will work with Japan and the ROK for cooperation with interested ASEAN countries under the "China-Japan-ROK+X" arrangement in a joint effort to pursue common progress in the region.
China supports cooperation on the digital economy, smart cities, artificial intelligence and e-commerce to deliver greater benefits of innovation and scientific and technological advances to the general public.
Fifth, deepening people-to-people exchanges.
Close bonds between our peoples are key to smooth progress in cooperation. Recent years have seen a boom of people-to-people and cultural exchanges among APT countries, which are popular among our people. Cooperation frameworks on tourism, education, culture and press should be fully leveraged and the APT Cooperation Fund well used to sponsor more projects that enjoy the support of the people. The launch of the Network of APT Cultural Cities last month will boost cultural exchanges and cooperation among cities in the region.
China welcomes the establishment of the APT Website, which will help the general public better understand and appreciate APT cooperation. China will remain a good host of the APT Media Cooperation Forum and the APT Young Scientists' Forum to strengthen exchanges and mutual learning between cultures and deepen the understanding and affinity among our peoples.
The prosperity and development of East Asia requires an environment of peace and stability. As an immediate neighbor to the Korean Peninsula and a responsible major country, China has been a promoter of peace and stability, facilitator of dialogue and negotiation, and contributor to long-term security. China will continue to work with other regional countries and play a positive role in promoting political resolution of the Peninsula issue, denuclearization of the Peninsula and enduring peace in the region, and this process.
Colleagues,
This year marks the 70th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China. Over the past seven decades, China has made remarkable progress in development owing to the hard work, wisdom and courage of the Chinese people, and in the course of its mutually beneficial exchanges and cooperation with the rest of the world. Going forward, China has the capacity to take good care of its own affairs and make new contributions to the common development of all countries.
This year, in spite of the complex international environment, the Chinese economy has, on the whole, registered steady growth and solid progress with major indicators performing within our expectations. GDP growth stood at 6.2 percent in the first three quarters of this year and is expected to stay in the range of 6 to 6.5 percent set out early this year. Close to 11 million urban jobs have been newly created, and the surveyed urban unemployment rate in September was 5.2 percent. International payments have been balanced overall with foreign exchange reserves remaining above US$3 trillion.
Structural adjustments are making steady progress. We have seen another bumper harvest of grains. The high-tech manufacturing and modern services industries have maintained fairly fast growth. An average of nearly 20,000 businesses are newly registered every day, maintaining a strong momentum of business growth. This testifies to the dynamism of entrepreneurship and innovation in society and the confidence of market entities. The per capita disposable income of urban and rural residents has been rising in sync with economic growth, the ecological environment is improving, and continued progress has been achieved in meeting people's basic needs.
These achievements have not been easy for China, particularly when its economy has surpassed US$13 trillion and major economies around the world are seeing a slow-down in growth. It once again proves the resilience, potential and vitality of the Chinese economy and our ability to fend off risks and challenges. The fundamentals sustaining China's positive economic outlook for the long term remain unchanged and will not change.
That said, due to the slowing global growth, the Chinese economy is also facing difficulties and challenges amid mounting downward pressure. Fully anticipating the complex and challenging situation at home and abroad, we have made comprehensive preparations and responded with proactive measures.
As the largest developing country in the world, China has intensified its efforts to promote a new type of industrialization, IT application, urbanization and agricultural modernization through deepening reform and opening-up. This process has generated stronger driving forces from within and promises unlimited potential for future development.
China has a 900 million-strong work force, a talent pool of over 170 million with higher education or professional skills, and more than 100 million and still growing market entities. We have a huge market of nearly 1.4 billion people with fast upgrading consumption demand, a full-fledged industrial system with a growing innovative capacity, and well-established infrastructure. All these constitute a strong underpinning for China's growth.
In the meantime, the host of major policies and measures we have taken are paying off. For example, the larger-scale tax and fee cuts adopted early this year have effectively slashed 1.53 trillion yuan worth of taxes and fees in the first eight months of this year. And the amount for the whole year is expected to surpass 2 trillion yuan. Such cuts will help relieve burdens on businesses, invigorate market entities and counteract the downward pressure.
Furthermore, we have stepped up efforts to nurture a world-class, market-oriented business environment governed by a sound legal framework and provide a level playing field for businesses of all types of ownership, domestic and foreign-invested alike. In the first three quarters of this year, despite the sluggish flows of FDI globally, foreign investment in China grew by 6.5 percent year on year. It shows that foreign companies remain optimistic about China and about making investment in China.
Besides, with a large toolkit and sufficient policy reserves for macro-regulation at our disposal, we are confident about meeting the main targets and goals for this year's economic and social development, laying a solid groundwork for the coming year.
China is a friendly neighbor to all countries around the table, ASEAN, Japan and the ROK. China's development will first and foremost benefit its neighborhood. Last year, all ASEAN countries, Japan and the ROK participated in the first China International Import Expo (CIIE), ranking among the top in terms of products exhibited and transaction value. The second CIIE, which will be even larger in scale, is to open in Shanghai shortly. China looks forward to the active participation of your countries.
Looking ahead, no matter how the external environment may change, China will stay committed to the path of peaceful development and all-round opening-up. We will share development opportunities with the people around the world, jointly foster an open world economy, and build a community with a shared future for mankind.
Colleagues,
As APT cooperation now enjoys stronger popular support, a more solid basis and greater opportunities for further development, China will, together with all parties, make APT cooperation a major engine for regional economic integration and contribute more to the long-term prosperity and stability of East Asia.
Thank you."
"4 November 2019
Prime Minister Prayut Chan-o-cha,
Colleagues,
It gives me great pleasure to join you in the beautiful city of Bangkok, known as the City of Angels. I wish to thank the Thai government for its thoughtful arrangements for our summit.
We face a complex and fluid international situation, characterized by setbacks to economic globalization, notably rising protectionism, challenges to the international order and global governance system, and flare-ups of regional hotspots. Global growth is losing steam, as economic slowdown hits developed economies and emerging markets alike. Major international institutions have revised down their growth forecasts for the global economy and trade for 2019 and 2020 to the lowest levels since the financial crisis. Some major economies have introduced interest rate cuts to counter the downward trend.
These uncertainties and destabilizing factors are also weighing on East Asia. Overcoming new risks and challenges, maintaining steady growth and upholding peace and development have become a more pressing and arduous task.
Since its inception 14 years ago, the East Asia Summit (EAS) has grown into an important platform for dialogue and cooperation among countries in and beyond the region. The 18 members of the EAS include major economies in the Asia Pacific and countries of different social systems and stages of development. Given its extensive representation and influence, the EAS should and can make a positive contribution to peace and prosperity in the region and the wider world.
To this end, we need to keep the EAS as a "leaders-led strategic forum", advance both political and security cooperation and social and economic development, and promote both strategic communication and practical cooperation. We need to uphold ASEAN centrality, stay focused on East Asia and the Asia Pacific, maintain the existing architecture of regional cooperation, and take cooperation forward along the right track. In this connection, I wish to make the following proposals for our future cooperation:
First, we need to promote win-win cooperation and build an open world economy. To cope with the new round of downward pressure on the world economy, we need to step up cooperation in the spirit of mutual support that has helped us navigate through the financial crisis.
To ensure steady growth of the world economy, we need to enhance macroeconomic policy coordination, advance structural reform, foster an open, fair, transparent, non-discriminatory and predictable business environment, and improve trade and investment liberalization and facilitation. We need to firmly support multilateralism and free trade, safeguard the multilateral trading regime with the WTO at its core, and make economic globalization more open, inclusive, balanced and beneficial for all.
The Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) proposed by China is guided by the principle of extensive consultation, joint contribution and shared benefits. It advocates open, green and clean development, and promotes open and win-win cooperation. Yesterday, China and ASEAN reached a new consensus to synergize the BRI and the Master Plan on ASEAN Connectivity 2025, which will create enabling conditions for prosperity and development in East Asia.
Fifteen RCEP participating countries have concluded text-based negotiations and essentially all their market access issues, and are committed to resolving the few outstanding issues by the end of this year, to make the agreement ready for signing at next year's RCEP Summit. This represents a major step forward in regional economic integration. It will help create a more open and stable trade and investment environment in our region, and boost the confidence of regional countries to overcome downward pressure and sustain the momentum of development and prosperity in East Asia. As an open and inclusive agreement, the RCEP will provide strong support and useful complement to the multilateral trading regime, give new impetus to global trade and investment liberalization and facilitation, and contribute to stable global growth.
Second, we need to put development first and seek common prosperity. Most countries in East Asia are developing countries faced with the fundamental and common tasks of speeding up growth and promoting inclusive, green and sustainable development. Developed countries need to take concrete and effective actions to fulfill their commitment under the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. We all need to work together to deepen global development partnership, promote inclusive growth, and make our contribution to narrowing the development gap, improving people's livelihood and protecting the environment.
Firmly committed to sustainable development, China has put people's well-being front and center, and pursued innovative, coordinated, green, open and shared development. We have made vigorous efforts in the areas of poverty reduction, education, health and environmental protection, and contributed over 70 percent to global poverty reduction.
Under the ASEAN theme of sustainability this year, the Statement on Partnership for Sustainability, which will be issued at the Summit, is conducive to energizing common efforts by EAS members to achieve more balanced, efficient and sustainable development in our region.
This year, China has participated in EAS cooperation with a focus on sustainable development. We have sponsored exchange programs on natural resources, clean energy and new energy, estuary harnessing, protection and management, and ship survey. Next year, we will continue to host the new energy forum, and launch exchange and cooperation projects on vessel traffic service and new food ingredients. We look forward to your active participation.
Third, we need to boost innovation to foster new drivers of growth. As the new round of technological and industrial revolution advances, technologies like 5G, artificial intelligence, big data and the Internet of Things will profoundly change the way we work and live. We must seize the opportunities presented. This requires that we identify and exert our respective strengths in pushing forward the transformation of traditional industries and facilitate a shift from traditional drivers of growth to new ones by bolstering the emerging sectors.
As next year has been designated the China-ASEAN Year of Digital Economy Cooperation, China is ready to enhance cooperation with ASEAN on smart cities, the digital economy, artificial intelligence and e-commerce to drive new progress in our innovation cooperation.
Blocking technological exchanges in the areas of innovation goes against the global trend of development and the shared interests of the international community. Such a practice will lead to nowhere and benefit no one. What we need is an open environment for healthy competition and cooperation where more countries and peoples could share in the resources and outcomes of innovation.
Fourth, we need to advance cooperation in non-traditional security fields to preserve common security. The increasingly acute non-traditional security challenges, from terrorism to climate change, cybersecurity to transnational crimes and illicit drugs, pose a threat to all countries. Such global challenges require collective responses. We must enhance dialogue and communication and actively pursue the new vision of common, comprehensive, cooperative and sustainable security.
China supports adopting the statements on combating transnational crimes and on the spread of illicit drugs at this Summit. China will host a counter-terrorism joint exercise this month and continue to support the relevant UN agency in preparing for the earthquake response exercise to be held in Thailand next month to tackle these non-traditional security threats. The Chinese side has co-sponsored joint researches on the security architecture in the Asia-Pacific for three consecutive years and will continue to support discussions on the concepts and architecture of regional security suited to regional realities to provide intellectual support for peace and stability in our region.
Colleagues,
Driven by our shared aspiration for a peaceful and stable South China Sea, China and ASEAN countries have made joint efforts to advance the consultations on the Code of Conduct. Last year, the Chinese side proposed that we conclude the consultations in three years' time, which was positively received. China and ASEAN countries are now working toward concluding the COC by the end of 2021 or even earlier. We have completed the first reading ahead of schedule last July, and the second reading has commenced. Overall, the process has been sound and smooth.
The COC is aimed at enhancing trust, boosting cooperation and managing differences. It should steer clear of territorial and jurisdictional disputes between countries concerned and serve as an institutional safeguard for peace and stability in the South China Sea. As important regional rules to be jointly formulated, observed and implemented by the 11 parties of China and ASEAN countries, the COC reflects the common interests and concerns of the 11 countries. The COC consultations should be built on the DOC, and deliver a more substantive, effective and operable document, which is aimed at better upholding peace and stability in the South China Sea and promoting cooperation among regional countries. Countries from outside the region, who are not direct parties to the South China Sea issue, should show real respect and support for the efforts of the regional countries.
Colleagues,
This year marks the 70th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China. The past seven decades have witnessed a momentous journey for our country, marked by solid steps forward and remarkable progress toward prosperity of the country, renewal of the nation and happiness of its people. These achievements have been made possible by the hard work and perseverance of the Chinese people. China's openness to and cooperation with the rest of the world has also been an important contributing factor. The Chinese economy has been deeply integrated into the world economy and its growth has created tremendous opportunities for other countries' development. Going forward, China will keep to the path of peaceful development and the win-win strategy of opening-up, deepen friendship and cooperation with all countries, and work with the rest of the international community for building a new type of international relations and a community with a shared future for mankind.
Colleagues,
East Asia is our shared home whose prosperity requires our joint efforts. China is ready to work with all other countries to expand common ground and enhance cooperation for a better future of our region, a future of peace and stability, economic progress, and a better life for our people."
"Bangkok, 3 November 2019
Prime Minister Prayut Chan-o-cha,
Colleagues,
I am delighted to gather with you in Bangkok for the 22nd China-ASEAN Summit. I look forward to an in-depth exchange of views and greater consensus building on further expanding China-ASEAN cooperation. Let me thank the Thai government and Prime Minister Prayut for the careful preparations and thoughtful arrangements made for the Summit.
Since the inception of our dialogue relationship in 1991, China and ASEAN have forged ahead side by side with mutual support. We have come a long way in our respective economic and social development, and have together contributed significantly to the stability and prosperity in East Asia. In his visits to Southeast Asia, President Xi Jinping called for building a closer China-ASEAN community with a shared future. China is ready to work with ASEAN countries to strengthen unity and cooperation in pursuit of new advances in our relations.
By enhancing political mutual trust, we have upheld regional peace and stability. We have always respected each other and treated each other as equals. We embrace good neighborliness and emphasize common ground over disagreements. And we all call for resolving disputes through dialogue and consultations.
China was the first dialogue partner to join the
Treaty of Amity and Cooperation in Southeast Asia
, and the first to openly state its readiness to sign the
Protocol to the Treaty on the Southeast Asia Nuclear Weapon-Free Zone.
China and ASEAN countries signed the
Declaration on the Conduct of Parties in the South China Sea
(DOC) and have since pushed for its full and effective implementation. We have taken forward consultations on a Code of Conduct in the South China Sea (COC) and made continuous progress in this respect.
One could say that without the joint efforts of China and ASEAN countries, East Asia could not have enjoyed continuous peace, free of war and conflict, nor would our region become one of the three economic powerhouses of today's world.
By deepening the convergence of our interests, we have firmly embraced shared progress. As representatives of the emerging economies in Asia, we have weathered two financial crises, and built the largest free trade area so far among developing countries.
China has remained ASEAN's top trading partner for ten years running. Two-way trade hit US$587.87 billion last year, and ASEAN became China's second largest trading partner this year. The China-ASEAN FTA Upgrading Protocol took full effect last month, and the revised rules of origin entered into application last August. Mutual investment exceeded US$200 billion in 2018, and achieved overall two-way balance. With integrated and interconnected development, China and ASEAN countries have become a key driver of regional economic integration.
By pursuing mutual learning between different cultures, we have forged a strong bond of friendship among our peoples. The histories and cultures of China and ASEAN countries are unique, diverse and inclusive. Exchanges between our peoples, which date back centuries, are going as strong as ever. Such close cultural ties are even enviable in the Asian region.
We have forged 201 pairs of sister-city relationships, built 38 Confucius Institutes in ASEAN countries and opened majors in the official languages of all ten ASEAN countries in Chinese universities. The number of students studying in each other's countries has kept increasing. The Year of Media Exchanges has been highly productive. As each other's major tourist destinations, we are connected by nearly 4,500 flights every week and mutual visits exceeded 57 million last year, passing the 50 million mark for the first time. Such booming exchanges are a true reflection of how close our peoples are to each other.
Colleagues,
This year marks the 70th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China. The past seven decades witnessed China's remarkable achievements in development. China will keep to the path of peaceful development, pursue a win-win strategy of opening-up, and work with ASEAN countries and all others to build a community with a shared future for mankind.
Our world is undergoing profound and complex changes. With global growth slowing, protectionism has been on the rise, putting multilateral rules and the international order under strain. Major international institutions have repeatedly downgraded their forecasts of global growth for this year and the next, indicative of the downside and even recessional risks confronting the world economy. All these will pose new and daunting challenges to countries in East Asia and beyond.
Facing such complexities, uncertainties and downward economic pressure, China and ASEAN countries should jointly uphold the UN-centered international system and the WTO-centered multilateral trading regime, preserve the hard-won achievements in our relations, safeguard the gains made in East Asian cooperation, and jointly sustain the momentum of regional prosperity. This way, we can truly deliver greater benefits to all countries and peoples in our region.
China has all along regarded ASEAN as a priority in its neighborhood diplomacy and a key region in Belt and Road cooperation. We support ASEAN's community-building, ASEAN centrality in East Asian cooperation and ASEAN's greater role in developing an open and inclusive regional architecture. Guided by the
China-ASEAN Strategic Partnership Vision 2030
, China hopes to work with ASEAN to upgrade our cooperation across the board and cultivate a closer community with a shared future. To this end, I wish to make the following proposals:
First, we need to further synergize our development plans in a forward-looking spirit. This is an important foundation for deepening China-ASEAN cooperation. With the third
Plan of Action to Implement the Joint Declaration on China-ASEAN
Strategic Partnership for Peace and Prosperity
due to expire next year, we should get down to formulating the fourth POA for 2021 to 2025 as soon as possible according to the targets we agreed in Vision 2030.
Greater connectivity in the region will serve the interests of both sides. So far, all ten ASEAN countries have signed bilateral Belt and Road cooperation agreements with China. China welcomes the release of the
China-ASEAN Joint Statement on Synergizing the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) and the Master Plan on ASEAN Connectivity (MPAC) 2025
at this Summit. We look forward to working with ASEAN to speed up the development of existing economic corridors, major rail links connecting China and Thailand, China and Laos, Jakarta and Bandung, and to strengthen infrastructure connectivity in general through railways, highways, ports, airports, power and telecommunications networks. By doing so, we will lay a solid foundation for future growth and prosperity across the region.
Second, we need to follow a win-win approach and upgrade economic and trade cooperation at a faster pace. The China-ASEAN FTA is one of the most sophisticated, vibrant and fruitful multilateral free trade arrangements in Asia. The entry into force of the Upgrading Protocol offers us a good opportunity to push forward trade and investment liberalization and facilitation, better integrate our industrial, supply and value chains, and further unleash the potential of trade and investment.
Taking the RCEP negotiations to fruition has been our shared aspiration for many years. Thanks to a stronger political will displayed by all parties over the past year, text-based negotiations have been basically concluded, and the bulk of market access talks has been completed. China will continue to uphold ASEAN centrality in the negotiations and support ASEAN's proposal to push for an early conclusion. We believe that expeditious conclusion of the RCEP negotiations will lay a solid foundation for economic integration in East Asia and contribute to the building of an open world economy.
On its part, China will open its door still wider to the rest of the world by fostering a world-class, market-based business environment governed by a sound legal framework. The second China International Import Expo will open in a couple of days' time. We look forward to your active participation and are prepared to import more of the agricultural specialties from this region from palm oil to tropical fruits. At the same time, we hope Chinese exporters and investors will enjoy a level playing field in your countries, so that we can all work together to bring two-way trade and investment to a new level. By showing our shared commitment to open and inclusive cooperation, China and ASEAN can set a fine example of promoting multilateralism and the healthy development of free trade worldwide.
Third, we need to pursue innovation-driven growth and be a pace-setter of our times. Cooperation on innovation has become a new highlight in China-ASEAN cooperation. The year 2020 has been designated as the China-ASEAN Year of Digital Economy Cooperation. It underscores a readiness on both sides to seize the opportunities presented by the new round of technological and industrial revolution and take forward our cooperation in such domains as the digital economy, artificial intelligence, big data and cybersecurity.
We need to advance our cooperation on e-commerce and build a China-ASEAN cross-border e-commerce community for innovation-driven development to enable more micro, small and medium-sized businesses to share in the opportunities created by the digital economy.
China welcomes the
China-ASEAN Leaders' Statement on Smart City Cooperation Initiative
released at this Summit. We support Chinese cities in partnering with ASEAN smart cities for greater policy exchange, standards sharing, and technology cooperation. We are glad to see that Shenzhen has signed a cooperation agreement with Singapore, and other Chinese cities, including Jinan, Nanning, Hangzhou and Xiamen, are reaching out to ASEAN cities as well. More such city-to-city partnerships will be encouraged.
We need to strengthen connectivity of our information infrastructure and IT supply chains, explore the application of the Beidou system in transportation, maritime search and rescue, precision agriculture and other fields of cooperation, and make digital, information and smart technologies accessible to more people.
Fourth, we need to pursue sustainable economic and social progress through inclusive and balanced development. A China-ASEAN Partnership on Blue Economy can be an important step toward achieving this goal. China hopes to strengthen practical cooperation with ASEAN on marine ecosystem preservation, ocean industry and marine technology innovation, with a view to enhancing the sustainability of the ocean economy.
We are happy to continue hosting the China-ASEAN Forum on Social Development and Poverty Reduction to share experience and deepen cooperation. The Marine Plastic Reduction Initiative for the China-ASEAN Partnership for Eco-friendly Urban Development will be taken forward and the China-ASEAN Collaborative Action on Climate Change and Air Quality Improvement launched. We are also prepared to step up cooperation on clean and renewable energy and technology sharing for water resources management.
Last year, we elevated China and BIMP-EAGA cooperation to the ministerial level. We hope the two sides will work out a Plan of Action at an early date. China is ready to provide a grant in light of the needs of BIMP-EAGA, and China Development Bank will set up a US$5-billion special loan for China and BIMP-EAGA cooperation. The funds will be used to finance cooperation projects in connectivity, people's well-being, industrial capacity and other fields to facilitate ASEAN's community-building efforts.
Fifth, we need to uphold mutual respect and trust, and deepen security cooperation. In this connection, let me note a few major events: the successful holding of another joint maritime exercise in Qingdao in April, the completion of the first exchange program for Chinese and ASEAN young and middle-aged officers and military think tanks last month, and the soon-to-be-convened 10th China-ASEAN Defense Ministers' Meeting. China will work with ASEAN to organize more of these events and conduct exchanges in defense at different levels. We hope that a direct hot line between our defense departments will be set up at an early date to strengthen policy communication and mutual trust. As part of our responses to regional security risks, our cooperation in non-traditional security areas also needs to be expanded, including counter-terrorism, disaster relief, joint law enforcement operations and combating transnational crimes.
Sixth, we need to nurture everlasting friendship and forge closer people-to-people ties. Cooperation in media, health, education and tourism will be enhanced. China welcomes the
Joint Statement on Deepening China-ASEAN Media Exchange and Cooperation
to be issued at this Summit, and looks forward to the closing ceremony of the China-ASEAN Year of Media Exchange to be held in Thailand later this year. China is ready to formulate a Five-Year Plan for Audiovisual Communication Cooperation with ASEAN, which will map out the direction and pathway for our media cooperation.
To help deliver higher quality health services in the region, China will, under the China-ASEAN Human Resources Training Program of Health Silk Road (2020-2022), train 1,000 ASEAN administrative and specialized personnel in the health sector in the next three years. We will continue to implement measures to facilitate the visits and exchanges to sustain the tourism boom. Next year, China will make additional contributions to replenish the China-ASEAN Cooperation Fund. We support the China-ASEAN Young Leaders Scholarship launched this year, which will help pass on our friendship from generation to generation.
Colleagues,
Peace and stability in the South China Sea is crucial to the development and prosperity of East Asia. Committed to the "dual-track" approach to the South China Sea issue, China and ASEAN countries have been fully and effectively implementing the DOC. The situation in the South China Sea has been improving overall and the consultations on the COC have been making faster progress.
Last year, the Chinese side proposed working to conclude the COC in three years' time, demonstrating China's greatest sincerity and goodwill to advance the consultations. Guided by such a prospect, our countries have set a common goal of concluding the consultations in 2021 or even earlier. In less than a year, we have completed the first reading ahead of schedule, commenced the second reading, and reached common understandings on the methodology, plan and pathway of the consultations. Such progress is encouraging and should be applauded.
Here I would like to share with you some thoughts on the consultations in the next stage:
First, as a DOC plus, or an upgraded version of the DOC, the COC should be built on the DOC. The consultations on the COC should follow the principles and carry forth the spirit of the DOC, and fully reflect the elements therein as we strive to deliver a more substantive, effective and operable document.
Second, the COC represents important regional rules to be jointly formulated, observed and implemented by China and the ten ASEAN countries. As such, it reflects the common interests and concerns of the 11 parties. We need to further expand consensus and stay focused on handling our own affairs well. With regional realities and needs in mind, we should endeavor to remove distractions, and keep the direction of the COC consultations firmly in our own hands.
Third, the COC is aimed at enhancing trust, boosting cooperation and managing differences. Consistent with this fundamental purpose, it should steer clear of territorial and jurisdictional disputes between countries concerned and serve as an institutional safeguard for peace and stability in the South China Sea. This is a principle we have all agreed to and should always uphold.
Fourth, the COC consultations should be actively taken forward according to the agreed timeline. It is incumbent on all parties to display sincerity, pragmatism and a win-win spirit, and work together for completing the second reading in 2020 to lay solid groundwork for realizing the "three-year target".
The steady and positive progress in the COC consultations over the past few years has been made possible by the concerted efforts of all sides. Singapore, the Philippines and Thailand, as country coordinator and ASEAN Chair, have made important contributions to such progress. China highly appreciates all their efforts. The next two years will be crucial for the consultations. China looks forward to working with all countries around the table in a joint endeavor to realize our common goal. We count on all sides to continue playing their due, constructive role to this end.
Let us take concerted actions to prove our ability to make the South China Sea a sea of peace, friendship and cooperation and uphold long-term peace, stability and security of our region.
Colleagues,
New developments call for a stronger commitment to our strategic partnership. United by a common sense of purpose, China and ASEAN will be able to stand at the forefront of our times and maintain the sound momentum of development. Together, we will deliver greater benefits to our peoples and usher in an even brighter future for East Asia.
Thank you!"
"Tashkent, 2 November 2019
Prime Minister Abdulla Aripov,
Colleagues,
It gives me great pleasure to join you for the 18th SCO Heads of Government Meeting in Tashkent, the city of sunshine. I wish to thank our host, the government of Uzbekistan, for its thoughtful preparations and arrangements for the meeting.
Since its inception 18 years ago, the SCO has kept a sound growth momentum with fruitful cooperation in security, economic, cultural and many other fields. Following its enlargement two years ago, member states, both founding and newly joined ones, have further tapped into the SCO's potential and scored new achievements from a new starting point. At the Bishkek Summit last June, President Xi Jinping proposed to make the SCO an example of solidarity, trust, common security, mutual benefit, inclusiveness and mutual learning and forge a closer SCO community with a shared future. No matter how the international situation may evolve, we as SCO members will always uphold the Shanghai Spirit and reject outdated mindsets such as the Cold War mentality, zero-sum game and the clash of civilizations narrative in favor of equality, openness, inclusiveness and mutually beneficial cooperation. We will always work together to safeguard peace, stability and development gains in our region, and contribute our share to a more just and equitable international order.
The international landscape has been going through complex and profound changes. Factors of instability and uncertainties are looming large: from flagging global growth, sluggish world trade and investment, rising protectionism and unilateralism to flare-ups of regional hotspots and persistent non-traditional security threats such as terrorism. On the other hand, peace and development remain the irreversible trend of our times. Regional cooperation is making further progress, and a new round of technological and industrial revolution is booming, presenting fresh opportunities for emerging markets and developing countries. It is time that we in the SCO seize the opportunities before us, build on our unity and trust, diversify cooperation and meet challenges together. To deliver on the consensus reached at the SCO summits and move toward higher quality cooperation, we need to intensify our efforts in the following areas.
First, we need to cement security arrangements to bolster the foundation of development. For all of us, development can only be attained in the larger context of regional security and stability. As threats and challenges keep coming our way, SCO members need to maintain close communication and coordination, enhance mutual support, and work for common, comprehensive, cooperative and sustainable security. By doing so, we will build on SCO's strength in security cooperation to jointly preserve stability and tranquility in the region and create a favorable external environment for economic and social endeavors in our own countries.
We need to further improve the legal basis for combating terrorism, separatism and extremism, reinforce the Regional Anti-Terrorism Structure and positively study the setting-up of an SCO anti-narcotics coordination mechanism. Putting prevention first, we need to earnestly implement the
SCO Convention on Countering Extremism,
take de-radicalization measures in areas of education, publicity, poverty alleviation and youth in order to stem the spread of extremist ideologies and eliminate the breeding ground for terrorism. In response to the changing realities, we should continue our joint counter-terrorism exercises and joint border control operations, strengthen security collaboration for major events and key projects, deepen cybersecurity cooperation, and upgrade our toolkit with the latest technologies to better counter violent terrorism. We need to give full play to the role of the SCO-Afghanistan Contact Group, support international efforts for peace and reconstruction in Afghanistan and jointly contribute to security, stability and economic progress in that country.
Second, we need to open up wider to expand the space for development. Economic globalization and regional economic integration remain the prevalent trend of the day. Isolating oneself will only lead to stagnation; a beggar-thy-neighbor approach will serve no one's interests. Only by embracing multilateralism and free trade and opting for openness and cooperation can we draw strength from complementarity and share the benefits of cooperation.
We need to uphold the authority and efficacy of WTO rules, support an open, inclusive, transparent, non-discriminatory and rules-based multilateral trading regime, unequivocally reject protectionism, and work together for an open world economy. To counter the downward pressure on the world economy, we need to tap into new markets, intensify trade and practical cooperation in all fields, and unlock the dynamism of regional economic cooperation. We need to steadfastly advance trade and investment liberalization and facilitation in the region, accelerate the free flow of factors of production, improve our division of labor and better integrate our industrial, supply and value chains. Harnessing the strong complementarity between our economies, we may strengthen the synergy between the Belt and Road Initiative and regional cooperation initiatives and development strategies of fellow SCO members. We also need to implement the renewed
Program of Multilateral Trade and Economic Cooperation
with real earnest and promote international industrial cooperation with a view to achieving win-win results for all involved.
China is working hard to develop the China-SCO Local Economic and Trade Cooperation Demonstration Zone in Qingdao, a Chinese port city with advantageous location, advanced logistics and sound industrial system. We hope to make Qingdao a new platform for in-depth SCO economic and trade collaboration at the sub-national level. We will continue to encourage Chinese companies to partner with fellow SCO members following the principle of government support, business initiative and commercial operation. And we call for concerted efforts by SCO members to foster a fair, open and transparent business environment and protect the legitimate rights and interests of all non-local investors.
Third, we need to enhance connectivity to lay the groundwork for high-quality development. SCO countries enjoy geographical proximity, close trade links and frequent personnel exchanges. Building more convenient and accessible transport and logistics networks and all-round connectivity will help lower the costs of flows of production factors, break development bottlenecks, and promote the coordinated development and common prosperity of regional countries.
Focusing on infrastructure connectivity, we should invest more in pursuing new breakthroughs in the development of our region's transportation, energy, and information and communications networks. Better connectivity in these areas will provide greater facilitation and stronger underpinning for lowering the development cost. We need to swiftly address impediments to connectivity concerning policies, rules and standards through consultations, streamline customs procedures, and remove administrative barriers, with a view to facilitating the smooth delivery of goods across our countries.
We need to give full play to the role of the SCO Joint Commission on Facilitation of International Road Transport, advance consultations on an SCO program for road development, and make good use of the cooperation mechanism among our railway administrations. The building of multi-modal transport routes and international multi-modal logistics centers should be encouraged to lend a stronger impetus to the growing economic cooperation and trade. SCO cooperation mechanisms in modern information and telecommunications should be better exploited to deepen mutually beneficial cooperation in these areas and spread the benefit of information technologies across our region.
We need to better harness the supporting role of financial cooperation. While employing multiple investment and financing vehicles in our region in a coordinated manner, we will continue to explore viable approaches to the setting-up of an SCO development bank to collectively provide reliable funding support for connectivity projects in our region.
Fourth, we need to nurture priority areas in innovation to boost the new drivers of growth. Innovation can help foster new areas of growth and accelerate industrial transformation and upgrading. We need to redouble efforts to implement innovation-driven development strategies, invest more in scientific and technological research, development and innovation, and enhance innovation cooperation and the sharing of outcomes. This way, more countries and peoples will directly benefit from the innovation dividend.
Following the development trends of digital, Internet and smart technologies, we need to jointly foster an open, fair, just and non-discriminatory environment for the application of 5G and other new technologies. We need to fully harness the Internet Plus to better tailor our goods and services to the needs of consumers and upgrade our economic structure. China will contribute its efforts to the building of a technology transfer center for the sharing of scientific and technological information and the commercialization and application of innovation outcomes. China will launch the SCO International Youth Business Incubator next year to support innovation and business start-ups by young people in our countries. China will host an SCO satellite navigation forum, work to launch the SCO demonstration base for exchanges and training on agricultural technologies in Shaanxi Province, with the aim of better applying new and high technologies to the socioeconomic development of SCO countries.
We need to champion green development and low-carbon, circular and sustainable ways of life and production, to jointly make the world a clean and beautiful place. China will work with all parties to make good use of the SCO Environment Information Sharing Platform, step up exchanges on environmental protection, energy conservation and emissions reduction, and promote green and sustainable development in regional countries.
Fifth, we need to put people first and share the benefits of development. The very aim of development lies in improving people's wellbeing. SCO member states need to make concerted efforts to promote inclusive development, raise living standards, and strengthen people-to-people exchanges and mutual learning, so as to deliver greater benefits to people in this region.
We need to enhance cooperation in education, health and environmental protection to produce tangible outcomes for our peoples. China will make continued efforts with all SCO countries to achieve higher quality public education and employment, including making a success of the SCO University and hosting an SCO craftsmen workshop and a vocational skills contest in China. China will contribute its part to SCO countries' joint endeavor to eradicate poverty by way of organizing training programs and sharing its experience.
China will provide 1,000 free cataract surgeries for SCO members and observers in the next three years in the Lifeline Express International Sight Saving Mission, as part of cooperation on blindness prevention. An SCO forum on traditional medicine will be held in China next May to step up exchanges on traditional medicine and promote public health.
Cooperation in culture, media, tourism and sports also needs to be strengthened by holding regular activities such as the SCO Forum on Women and the Youth Campus. These efforts will help bring our people closer, deepen mutual understanding, mutual respect and mutual trust, and carry forward our friendship to future generations.
Colleagues,
This year, we in China warmly celebrated the 70th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic. Over the past seven decades, China has achieved remarkable progress and created opportunities for the development of other countries. China has contributed around 30 percent of global growth for many years. It is now a major trading partner and an important export market for over 130 countries and regions.
The high-quality BRI cooperation, which is open and mutually beneficial, has injected fresh impetus to the common development of participating countries. In its latest round of high-level opening-up, China has been implementing measures to further expand import, lower the threshold for market access, strengthen the protection of intellectual property rights, and foster a world-class, market-oriented business environment governed by a sound legal framework. The second China International Import Expo will be held in Shanghai early next week. China stands ready to import more quality products from SCO countries. All parties are most welcome to participate in the expo and share opportunities brought by opening-up and cooperation.
Colleagues,
As our Uzbek friends say, "One rock alone cannot hold back the flood, only unity will lead us to triumph." It perfectly captures the spirit that has enabled our organization to grow from strength to strength. Our achievements so far have ushered the SCO into a crucial period for new and even greater progress. Together, with a commitment to the Shanghai Spirit and the unity of purpose, we will deepen cooperation and make new contributions to the peace, stability, development and prosperity of our region and the wider world!
Thank you."
"Honorable Mr. Han Qide,
Honorable Ms. Irina Bokova,
Honorable Party Secretary Qiu Shuiping and President Hao Ping of Peking University,
Distinguished Guests,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
In this autumn season when Beijing is clad in a riot of colors, it gives me great pleasure to meet with friends, old and new, at the Beijing Forum and discuss the progress of human civilization.
Since its inauguration, the Beijing Forum has been convened under the general theme of "The Harmony of Civilizations and Prosperity for All". Discussions have focused on advancing peace and development, making the Forum a valuable platform for deepening mutual learning and understanding. The theme of this year's forum, "The Changing World and the Future of Humankind", is highly relevant. It dovetails with current global developments and touches on matters of interest to all.
The world today is going through changes of a kind unseen in a century. Looking around, we see faster evolution of the global governance system and international order. With different ideas vis-à-vis each other, there is a heated debate on how to perceive all those changes.
People will naturally ask: Where is our world headed? How are different countries and civilizations to interact with each other? Do we choose openness or seclusion, cooperation or confrontation, a win-win or zero-sum outcome?
To answer these important questions, we must see through the mist of change, and grasp the trend of history. Most importantly, we must understand fully the nature and direction of current global developments. Let me share with you a few observations:
In today's world, economic globalization is still the predominant trend. Globalization is a huge boost to economic development and human progress. It has lifted productivity and living standards to an unprecedented degree. Between 1990 and 2010, global economic growth averaged 5.51 percent. Since the start of this century, 1.1 billion people worldwide have been helped out of poverty. For all this to happen, economic globalization has had a sure part to play.
On the other hand, for some time there has been an obvious backlash against globalization. The reasons may be complicated. Yet, the world economy has grown into something like the ocean. As President Xi Jinping has rightly pointed out, "To channel the waters in the ocean back into isolated lakes and creeks is simply not possible."
The trend of economic globalization is irresistible. It has given rise to the latest round of scientific, technological and industrial revolution. Of the many global challenges we face, development disparity, digital divide, equity deficit, among others, none could be addressed without the leveling effect of economic globalization. In this day and age, the right answer can only be continued globalization. The focus should be on a more open and inclusive mentality, more balanced and universal benefits, and more equitable and win-win outcomes.
In today's world, multi-polarity is clearly the order of the day. The transition to a multi-polar world has been fraught with ups and downs. The end of the Cold War actually started a process toward a more multi-polar world. The collective rise of emerging markets and developing countries at the turn of the century, among other things, marks a major shift in global politics and greater equilibrium in the balance of power. Accounting for two-fifths of the world economy and four-fifths of global growth, they make a strong force for world peace and development.
In today's world, more democratic international relations is all the more what people aspire for. This is part and parcel of the yearning for a multi-polar world. Countries, big or small, strong or weak, rich or poor, are all equal members of the world community. Global affairs should be decided by all countries working together, and international relations should be conducted on the basis of recognized norms like sovereign equality, dialogue and consultation, and the rule of law. All these are strongly desired by the overwhelming majority of countries worldwide.
The basic norms of international relations, built on the purposes and principles of the UN Charter, together with the international system centering around the United Nations, have brought more than 70 years of peace, stability, development and prosperity since World War II. Today, to preserve and promote multilateral cooperation under the auspices of the UN and to reform and improve the international system is the common choice of the majority of countries in the world. Hegemonism and power politics cannot stop the advance toward more democratic international relations. Protectionism and unilateralism cannot shake countries' commitment to openness, cooperation, and multilateralism.
In today's world, diversity of civilizations is exactly the choice of history. In 2014, President Xi Jinping spoke on the importance of exchange and mutual learning between civilizations at UNESCO. As President Xi noted in his speech, civilizations become richer through exchange and mutual learning. Diversity, equality and inclusiveness are the hallmark of human civilization. Each civilization and culture is valuable in its own right. One may be different from another, but no one is superior over the other. The achievements of all civilizations need to be respected and treasured. History tells us that human progress is enabled by mutual learning among civilizations, and world peace and prosperity is underpinned by the harmonious coexistence of all civilizations.
That said, we must also remember that history doesn't move in a straight line. It zigs and zags. The deepening changes in the world have brought more uncertainties and destabilizing factors - intricate entanglements in international relations, fast-changing reconfiguration of various forces, turbulence in some regions, to name just a few. All these have come up naturally in an international system under adjustment. But on the whole, I think it is fair to say the following about today's world:
- Clashes between unilateralism and multilateral cooperation are on the rise, but the trend toward a more balanced dispensation of power and a stronger international system is unstoppable.
- Opinions seem to be more divided over economic globalization and openness, but come what may, the world economy will be more open, inclusive, balanced, and beneficial to all.
- It is increasingly true that major countries have both shared interests and differences. Yet it remains the case that they depend on each other as much as they balance each other.
- We face grave strategic security challenges and serious regional hot-spots, but the global security environment is generally stable and under control.
- Countries may have more ideological disagreements and differences in terms of their system and culture, but there remains a strong international consensus for open and inclusive exchange and mutual learning between different civilizations.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
The future direction of our world very much depends on the choice we make together. In response to the profound changes rarely seen in a century, President Xi has put forth his vision for a community with a shared future for mankind:
- It is about countries working together for an open, inclusive, clean and beautiful world that enjoys lasting peace, universal security and common prosperity, and for a new type of international relations featuring mutual respect, fairness, justice, and mutually beneficial cooperation.
- It is designed to promote the progress of mankind, and to serve the fundamental and shared interests of the Chinese people and other people around the world.
- As such, the vision has been highly commended and warmly received by the international community and endorsed in multiple United Nations documents.
President Xi's vision of a community with a shared future has pointed the way forward for our world. To translate it into reality, countries need to work together and they each do their part for the sake of future generations.
First, we must uphold equality and mutual trust to realize lasting peace. Peace and development remain the call of our times. With some countries and regions still mired in conflict and turbulence, our world yearns for full peace, and strongly rejects the Cold-War mentality and power politics. Only when all countries commit to a partnership based on equality, consultation and accommodation, can there be a world of lasting peace and prosperity, and a fairer and more equitable international order.
Second, we must promote dialogue and consultation to achieve enduring stability. National sovereignty and territorial integrity brook no violation. Countries have to respect each other's core interests and concerns, seek negotiated solutions to their differences and disputes, and build trust through dialogue. Only with the broadest consensus and shared interests of all people, can we achieve universal security in the world.
Third, we must pursue win-win results to deliver prosperity for all. Given the level of intertwined interests between countries, our destinies are tied and we all stand to gain and lose together. We must reject acts of unilateralism and protectionism, and replace the old thinking of "winners take all" with a new approach of win-win and all-win. To deliver development and prosperity for all, it is important that we promote an open global economy and make globalization a more open, inclusive, beneficial, balanced and win-win process.
Fourth, we must respect each other to promote mutual learning between civilizations. We need to treat each other as equals, say no to arrogance and prejudice, and be humble and respectful to the cultural diversity that defines our world. Only by respecting, understanding and learning from each other, can we bring down the invisible walls that divide us, push back the old mindset that stop us from reaching out to one another, remove the psychological barriers that hinder the flourishing of friendships, and achieve harmony among all civilizations.
Fifth, we must advance with the times to achieve innovation-driven development. Every day, we see new issues and challenges arise. The world has changed. We must get rid of old stereotypes and keep up with change. We need to think different, reform the institutions and master new technologies. Only with these bold actions, can we get through difficulty, harness the change, and build a common future where all countries benefit from innovation and live together in harmony.
Ladies and gentlemen,
Friends,
This year marks the 70th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China. A nationwide celebration was held just a month ago. We wish to use this opportunity to thank the world and the many friends present today for the warm congratulations and good wishes to China and the Chinese people.
Just yesterday, the Fourth Plenary Session of the 19th CPC Central Committee was concluded successfully. The Communist Party of China adopted a decision on major issues concerning upholding and improving the system of socialism with Chinese characteristics and modernizing China's system and capacity for governance. This decision will provide a strong underpinning for better translating China's institutional advantage into more effective governance, for realizing the Two Centenary Goals, and for achieving the Chinese Dream of national renewal.
In seven decades, China has gone through an extraordinary journey and made phenomenal progress. It is no longer the country it once was. Socialism with Chinese characteristics has entered a new era. China has stood up, grown prosperous and is becoming stronger. Having come a long way itself, China has also made important contributions to the world. For many years, China has generated around 30 percent of global growth. It is a major trading partner and export market for over 130 countries and regions. The Belt and Road Initiative has been a great success. It contributes to the development of partner countries and provides a platform for open and win-win cooperation across the world.
For 70 years, China has followed the leadership of the CPC and the socialist path. We have pursued an independent foreign policy of peace and championed international norms centering around the Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence. We have stood firm for fellow developing countries and against hegemonism and power politics. We have safeguarded China's sovereignty, security and development interests and made sure that those efforts are in line with the greater good of the world. We have sought truth from facts, progressed with the times and kept our mind open. This is what made China's achievements in foreign affairs possible.
Since the 18th Party Congress in 2012, guided by Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era and especially Xi Jinping Thought on Diplomacy, China has embarked on the new path of major-country diplomacy with Chinese characteristics. In a nutshell, it is about China's commitment to openness, cooperation and peaceful development. It is about China's vision for national rejuvenation in a rapidly changing world and the vision for a community with a shared future for mankind.
We Chinese are honest and sincere people. But not everyone is happy to see China's development. Some have always tried to find fault with China, with our development path and domestic and foreign policies. Such attempts find little support from the international community and will never get their way. China will continue to move along the path of socialism with Chinese characteristics and make new contribution to the peace, stability, development and prosperity of our world.
First, China will unswervingly pursue the path of peaceful development. China was itself a victim to foreign invasion. Incessant wars ravaged China for more than 100 years. The country knows best the value of peace. Since ancient times, China has cherished a love of peace and pursued harmony without uniformity. This is the belief embedded in the Chinese national DNA. To follow the path of peaceful development is a strategic decision China made based on its national reality. It also represents the common desire of peoples around the world.
China was once poor and weak. It is now the world's second largest economy. China's achievement comes with peaceful development, not territorial expansion or invasion. Time and again, world history proves one thing: stability brings development, and prosperity comes with peace, not the use of force. China will stay on the path of peaceful development, and we hope other countries will do the same. Only peaceful development can bring common development and peaceful coexistence for all.
Second, China will unswervingly pursue common development. President Xi said, "A China with its own house in order is in itself a contribution to the world." Through reform and opening-up, China has become more developed and more connected with other countries. This has in turn made the world better off. The more China develops, the more opportunities it will create for the world.
According to a World Bank report, the Belt and Road Initiative, when fully implemented, would help lift 32 million people out of relative poverty, boost global trade by 6.2 percent and drive up global income by 2.9 percent. China will work with other countries to advance the Belt and Road Initiative in a way that leads to high-quality development. When we work together and help each other, we can embark on a broad path that leads to prosperity for all.
Third, China will unswervingly expand opening-up and cooperation. Opening-up has been a strong boost to China's reform, development and its constant progress in modernization. Through opening-up, China has lifted itself and contributed to the world. In three days' time, the second China International Import Expo will open in Shanghai. It is the world's first national expo designed to increase import. The initiative is unprecedented in the history of international trade.
Here in China, we have further broadened access to foreign investment. A management system of pre-establishment national treatment and negative list has been adopted nationwide. The Foreign Investment Law will enter into force on 1 January next year. China will not close its door; we will open it wider. We hope other countries will do the same and work together toward a prosperous future for all.
Fourth, China will unswervingly carry on its proud tradition of independence. Entering a new era of development, China will keep to its independent foreign policy for peace. China wants to be a partner to all countries. With big countries, we seek coordination and cooperation; with our neighbors in northeast Asia, southeast Asia, south Asia and central Asia, we seek friendship and cooperation; with fellow developing countries, we seek greater unity and cooperation.
China will adhere to the path of socialism with Chinese characteristics. We respect other countries' independent choice of social system and development path. We oppose interfering in others' domestic affairs, no matter in what form. China's development threatens no one. And no country will succeed in any attempt to impinge on China's sovereignty, security and development.
Fifth, China will unswervingly pursue extensive consultation, joint contribution and shared benefits with other countries. Passengers on the same boat must stick together to weather storms. A beggar-thy-neighbor approach is doomed to fail. When countries consult with each other, consensus is more likely to be obtained. When countries see each other as partners, they are more likely to find solutions to global challenges.
China stands for win-win cooperation, and works to pursue the greater good and shared benefits with other countries. China firmly upholds the norms of international relations based on the purposes and principles of the UN Charter. We believe that the core values and basic principles of the multilateral trading system should be upheld. The reform of the global governance system must aim to help more countries and their people lead a better life.
To sum up, in this fast-changing world, China will continue to shoulder its responsibilities and obligations as it should. China hopes to build a community with a shared future for all mankind. The world can count on China as a promoter of world peace, contributor to global development, and upholder of the international order.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
In his keynote speech to the Conference on Dialogue of Asian Civilizations this May, President Xi Jinping said, "China today is more than the country itself; it is very much a part of Asia and the world. In the future, China will open its arms wider to embrace the world and contribute the dynamic achievements of Chinese civilization to a better world."
In a world of unprecedented change, transformation and adjustment, China and indeed every nation has a duty to promote mutual learning between civilizations for world peace and development.
I am confident that we, as countries and individuals, will make the right choice in the current era. Let us work together to forge a brighter future for all nations and, indeed, for humanity.
In conclusion, I wish the Beijing Forum 2019 a full success!
Thank you."
"Beijing, 9 October 2019
Your Excellencies Heads of Government, Deputy Heads of Government and Spouses,
Your Excellencies Secretary General of the Bureau International des Expositions and President of the International Association of Horticultural Producers,
Diplomatic Envoys and Representatives of International Organizations,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
Spanning five-plus months from balmy spring to golden autumn, the International Horticultural Exhibition 2019 Beijing China is now drawing to a successful close. On behalf of the Chinese government and people, I wish to express warm congratulations on the success of the Expo and heartfelt appreciation to friends from across the world for their support and participation. My warm welcome goes to all the distinguished guests attending tonight's closing ceremony.
This Expo, under the theme of "Live Green, Live Better", has been a spectacular and fruitful event, attracting a record participation of 110 countries and international organizations, and over 120 non-official participants.
At the opening ceremony on 28 April, President Xi Jinping called for a joint endeavor in building a better homeland and a community with a shared future for mankind.
The Expo has celebrated the achievements of green development by different countries and cultures. The over 100 National Day and Honor Day events, and 3,000-odd ethnic and folk culture activities have boosted cultural exchanges, friendship and green cooperation among participating countries.
The Expo has showcased the latest progress of innovation in science and technology. The cutting-edge horticultural technologies on full display herald a bright future of green technology application.
The Expo has provided up-close experiences with Mother Nature. Here, nearly ten million visitors from China and abroad have seen with their own eyes how environmental protection and development advance in parallel, and humans and nature coexist in harmony.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
Just several days ago, we celebrated the 70th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic. In the past seven decades, with the hard work and fortitude of the Chinese people, China has made historic progress in economic and social domains and in ecological conservation. Since the beginning of the new century, of the five percent increase in the global green leaf area, one quarter has come from China.
That said, China remains the biggest developing country in the world. We will continue to put economic development front and center, and promote development as the underpinning force for tackling all challenges.
Facing the daunting tasks of growing the economy, improving people's lives and enhancing environmental protection, we will stick to a holistic approach to pursue both high-quality economic development and high-standard environmental protection through reform and opening-up.
We will stay on the path of sustainable development featuring advanced production, higher living standards and healthy ecosystems.
We will consistently pursue green development by accelerating the shift of the growth model and improving our economic structure. Harnessing innovation, the primary driving force for development, we will foster new drivers of growth at a faster pace, and boost the development of energy-saving and environment-friendly industries and a circular economy.
Green and low-carbon consumption will be encouraged, and we will aim for sustained and sound economic and social progress with less resource input.
We will work to deliver a greener and better life to the people by resolutely tackling pollution and resolving acute environmental problems. We will improve the living environment, with a focus on addressing fundamental, recurrent and long-term challenges, push forward the protection and restoration of key ecosystems, and provide the people with a more beautiful and livable environment.
We will further enhance green cooperation. We will continue to support and follow a multilateral approach, stick to the principles of common but differentiated responsibilities, equity and respective capabilities, and actively implement the Paris Agreement on climate change.
We will bolster exchanges and cooperation on ecological conservation and promote the sharing of best practices to help other developing countries, to the best of our ability, to grow a green economy and realize sustainable development.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
As I walked around the Park with other leaders earlier in the evening,I was deeply impressed by the picturesque sceneries. I cannot help but hope that such a charming sight can be seen in more places across China and the world.
It behooves us all in the international community to build and leave to our children and grandchildren a beautiful planet to live in. Let us join hands to promote harmony between man and nature and bring a better future to the human race.
I now declare close the International Horticultural Exhibition 2019 Beijing China!"
"30, September 2019
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Comrades and Friends,
In this golden season of autumn, we are gathered here to mark the 70th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China. For the Chinese people of all ethnic groups and Chinese sons and daughters at home and abroad, this is a joyful moment - a moment to celebrate the 70th birthday of our great People's Republic and to salute the epic progress of our motherland during the past seven decades.
Over the past 70 years, under the strong leadership of the Communist Party of China (CPC), the Chinese people, with great courage and relentless exploration, have successfully opened the path of socialism with Chinese characteristics. Along this path, we have ushered in a new era. Having caught up with the world in great strides, we are now marching forward at the forefront of the times with boundless energy!
Over the past 70 years, the Chinese people, with perseverance and strenuous efforts, have made development achievements that are the marvel of the world. Absolute poverty, which has haunted the Chinese nation for thousands of years, will soon become a thing of the past. This will be a great miracle in human history!
Over the past 70 years, the Chinese people, upholding an independent foreign policy of peace, have forged ahead along the path of peaceful development. Guided by the Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence, we have deepened friendship and cooperation with other countries and made an important contribution to building a community with a shared future for mankind and advancing the noble cause of peace and development for humanity!
Seventy years are but a fleeting moment in human history. But for the Chinese people, for our nation, these have been 70 years of epoch-making changes. The Chinese nation has realized a tremendous transformation: it has stood up, grown rich and is becoming stronger; it has come to embrace the brilliant prospects of national renewal. This phenomenal transformation brings infinite pride to every son and daughter of the Chinese nation!
Here on behalf of the CPC Central Committee and the State Council, I pay high tribute to the Chinese people of all ethnic groups and all CPC members, to officers and men of the People's Liberation Army and members of the armed police, and to all the other political parties and personages with no party affiliations in China! I wish to convey sincere greetings to fellow Chinese in the Hong Kong and Macao Special Administrative Regions, in Taiwan and residing abroad! I also wish to express heartfelt thanks to all the countries and international friends who have given support and help to the development of New China!
Comrades and Friends!
Unity is iron and steel; unity is a source of strength. It is what has enabled the Chinese people and the Chinese nation to move forward against all risks and challenges, from one victory to another.
In our new journey, we must hold high the banner of unity and rally closely around the CPC Central Committee. We must cement the great unity of all our ethnic groups, and strengthen the great unity of all Chinese sons and daughters at home and abroad and of all political parties, organizations, ethnic groups, social strata and fronts. We must maintain the close bond between the CPC and the people and promote patriotism. Thus we will create an unparalleled force that will power the ship of our national renewal to clip waves and reach its destination.
Comrades and Friends!
We will continue to fully and faithfully implement the principles of "One Country, Two Systems", "Hong Kong people administering Hong Kong", "Macao people administering Macao" and a high degree of autonomy. We will act in strict accordance with the Constitution and the Basic Laws. We are confident that with the full backing of the motherland and the concerted efforts of our fellow Chinese in Hong Kong and Macao who love the motherland as well as their communities, Hong Kong and Macao will prosper and progress alongside the mainland and embrace an even brighter future!
We will uphold the one-China principle and the "1992 Consensus", promote the peaceful development of relations across the Taiwan Strait, and deepen cross-Strait economic and cultural exchanges and cooperation to the benefit of people on both sides. The complete reunification of the motherland is an inevitable trend; it is what the greater national interests entail and what all Chinese people aspire for. No one and no force can ever stop it!
We will hold high the banner of peace, development, cooperation and mutual benefit, and keep firmly to the path of peaceful development. We will stay committed to opening-up and work with people in all countries to build a community with a shared future for mankind, and to create a world bathed in peace and development.
Comrades and Friends,
The Chinese people are great people, the Chinese nation is a great nation, and Chinese civilization is a great civilization. History will shed light on the future, and our journey ahead will be a long one. We are convinced that the Chinese people and the Chinese nation, with a proud civilization spanning over five millennia and great accomplishments during the past 70-year history of New China, will write a more brilliant chapter in our new journey toward the realization of the Two Centenary Goals and the Chinese Dream of great national renewal.
Now please join me in a toast:
To the 70th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China;
To the prosperity and strength of China and the happiness and well-being of the Chinese people of all ethnic groups;
To the friendship and cooperation between the people of China and all other countries; and
To the health of all the guests, comrades and friends present.
Cheers!"
"Beijing, 12 September 2019
Your Excellencies,
Distinguished Guests,
Good afternoon! It is a great pleasure to join you at Lanting again. Let me first extend a warm welcome to Secretary Du Jiahao, Governor Xu Dazhe and all the old and new friends present here.
There is a special meaning for today's event. In 18 days, we will celebrate the 70th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China. As an important province, Hunan has been playing a unique role in the extraordinary development journey of the Chinese nation.
Hunan is the cradle of China's revolution.
It was home to Comrade Mao Zedong, the main founder of New China. Many revolutionaries who dedicated themselves to the nation were also from Hunan, including three founding marshals and six founding senior generals of the People's Republic. In the gruesome War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression, more than 300,000 men and women from Hunan made the ultimate sacrifice. And we know the names of nearly 120,000 of these martyrs. With their precious lives, they made indelible contribution to the founding of New China and the liberation of the nation.
Hunan is an epitome of China's reform and opening up.
Over the past decades, it has been implementing the strategy of innovation-led opening up and development, and working hard to lead the opening up of China's inland. Hunan's GDP has grown nearly 40 times compared to the early years of reform and opening up. Its GDP created every six hours today is tantamount to its entire economy of the whole year of 1949. Hunan's world-class and advanced scientific and technological achievements, such as the magnetic-levitation trains and the Beidou Satellite system, have become its new name cards. The province is actively integrating itself into the Belt and Road Initiative. It has established extensive transport links through the China-Europe freight train service. It is now the permanent venue for the China-Africa Economic and Trade Expo. All this has brought about important opportunities for Hunan in the new round of opening up.
Hunan is a prime example of poverty reduction through development.
In 2013, it was in the Shibadong Village in western Hunan where General Secretary Xi Jinping first outlined the important vision of "targeted poverty reduction". Since then, Hunan has been moving on the "fast track" of poverty alleviation, and has improved people's lives significantly. Hunan is also the place where Academician Yuan Longping cultivates the "super hybrid rice". This technological advancement has not only benefited the Chinese people, but also contributed in an important way to poverty reduction and sustainable development around the world. To date, China has trained over 14,000 technicians from more than 80 developing countries to use this technology, leading to an annual increase of rice output that can feed as many as 80 million more people.
Your Excellencies,
Distinguished Guests,
Seventy years ago, Chairman Mao Zedong, with his strong Hunan accent, solemnly announced to the whole world on the Tian'anmen Rostrum, "The Central People's Government of the People's Republic of China is established! The Chinese people have now stood up!" These words are still resonating in the heart of the Chinese people, inspiring them to work hard for national rejuvenation. Under the strong leadership of the Communist Party of China (CPC), China has completed in a span of decades a journey that had taken developed countries centuries. It is a miracle of development unseen before in the history of the world.
Our achievement in the past 70 years proves that we have chosen the right path, the path of socialism with Chinese characteristics under the CPC leadership. It is the path that we will stick to no matter how many difficulties await us. No external interference or containment can dampen our confidence or courage, let alone blocking the historical trend of the great renewal of the Chinese nation.
Our achievement in the past 70 years proves that China's development is an opportunity for the world. China has been contributing over 30 percent of the global growth for many years, outperforming any other economy. On the international front, China remains committed to peaceful development, mutual benefit and win-win cooperation. It endeavors to safeguard the current international order and system, and promote globalization and trade liberalization. It seeks common development with other countries on the basis of mutual respect, equality and mutual benefit.
The world is undergoing profound changes unseen in a century. Global challenges of one kind or another are growing. Unilateralism, protectionism and power politics are rearing their ugly head again, posing threats to the stability and development of the world. Under these new circumstances, no country can stay immune. Stronger communication and effective coordination between nations are more imperative than ever. Countries must respect each other's choice of their development paths, enlarge the pie of cooperation, uphold international equity and justice, safeguard multilateralism, and continue to promote democracy in international relations. In this process, China is willing to make its important contribution.
Your Excellencies,
Tomorrow will be China's Mid-Autumn Festival, which symbolizes family reunion and happiness. I would like to take this opportunity to extend to you my best wishes. I hope that at today's event, you will have a taste of the Mid-Autumn Festival and Hunan Province, and experience China in the New Era.
Thank you!"
"On 15 September 2019, Premier Li Keqiang gave Russian News Agency TASS a written interview on the eve of his official visit to the Russian Federation and the 24th regular meeting between the Chinese and Russian heads of government. The full text of the interview runs as follows:
Q1. This year marks the 70th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between China and Russia. China-Russia relations have entered a new era. Mr. Premier, how do you evaluate the progress of the bilateral ties in the past seven decades? What is your expectation for this relationship going forward?
Li:
I am delighted to be visiting the Russian Federation on the occasion of the 70th anniversary of China-Russia diplomatic relations. I will be making an official visit and attend the 24th regular meeting between the Chinese and Russian heads of government at the invitation of Prime Minister Medvedev. China and Russia are each other's biggest neighbors. The bilateral relationship has come a long way in the past 70 years. It has grown increasingly stable, mature and resilient, and is now at its best in history. In keeping with the prevailing trend of the world, we have pioneered a new type of state-to-state relationship featuring non-alliance, non-confrontation and non-targeting at any third party. Taking relations with each other as a priority in our external relations, we have developed a full range of mechanisms for high-level engagement and cross-sector cooperation. We have conducted practical cooperation of rich substance and strategic significance. Our all-dimensional, deep-going and multi-tiered cooperation has delivered bountiful benefits to people of both countries. As founding members of the United Nations and permanent members of the UN Security Council, China and Russia have engaged in close coordination on international affairs and actively fulfilled our responsibilities as underpinning forces for world peace and stability.
During President Xi Jinping's successful state visit last June, China-Russia relationship was elevated to the comprehensive strategic partnership of coordination for a new era. In face of the shifting dynamics in the international environment, China-Russia relations have come to a new starting point with new opportunities, new tasks and new challenges. China stands ready to work with Russia to advance with the times and break new grounds in jointly sustaining and growing our bilateral ties. The two sides need to consolidate strategic trust and enhance mutual support to firmly keep the bilateral relations on the right track, free from external disturbances. We need to harness our comparative strengths to enhance the synergy between the Belt and Road Initiative and the Eurasian Economic Union, and expand the convergence of interests to cement the material foundation for our relations. We need to carry forward the traditional friendship, strengthen mutual learning, and develop closer people-to-people ties. We need to firmly uphold the UN-centered international system anchored by international law, and jointly build a new type of international relations and a community with a shared future for mankind to safeguard world peace, stability, fairness and justice.
The 70th anniversary of China-Russia relations is both a milestone and a new start. The time-tested China-Russia relationship, driven by common aspirations and shared interests, is brimming with vigor and vitality. I am confident that, with joint efforts, our comprehensive strategic partnership of coordination for a new era will score new achievements and make greater contribution to the development and renewal of our two countries and to the prosperity and tranquility of the world.
Q2. The regular meeting between the Chinese and Russian heads of government is an important mechanism providing overall guidance to the practical cooperation between the two countries. How will this mechanism catalyze greater progress of the bilateral cooperation in the new era? What will be the priority areas? What new measures will be taken?
Li:
The regular meeting between the Chinese and Russian heads of government is one of the first cooperation mechanisms China established with other countries. The fact that such meetings have so far been successfully held 23 times speaks volumes about the sophistication of our bilateral ties and practical cooperation. In the past 23 years, this mechanism has grown from strength to strength, playing an ever stronger role in planning, coordinating and advancing our bilateral cooperation.
China and Russia see in each other an important cooperation partner for shared progress and prosperity, and we take expanding practical cooperation and shared interests as an overarching goal of our comprehensive strategic partnership of coordination for a new era. By leveraging our comparative strengths for mutual benefit, we have succeeded in pushing forward cooperation in both traditional sectors and emerging industries, and achieved an uplift in both quantity and quality. Last year, two-way trade surged by 27.1%, breaking the US$100 billion mark for the first time. China has been Russia's top trading partner for nine years running, and is also Russia's largest source of imports and destination for exports. In the first half of this year, the bilateral trade and investment maintained brisk growth, boding well for a broad prospect of our practical cooperation. Such performance has truly been a hard-won achievement given the downturn in global trade and investment. The two countries are making solid progress in strategic cooperation in energy, aviation, space and connectivity. Major projects such as the eastern route of the natural gas pipeline, the Nizhneleninskoye-Tongjiang Railway Bridge and the Blagoveshchensk-Heihe Highway Bridge are nearing completion. Cooperation in new areas including agriculture, finance, science and technology, and e-commerce is flourishing. Sub-national cooperation is deepening and expanding. It is fair to say that China-Russia practical cooperation, with its fruitful outcomes, has contributed to the well-being of both peoples and to the growth of the world economy.
During my visit, the two sides will take stock of the progress made and plan for the future in a bid to raise the bilateral practical cooperation to a higher level. The two sides will continue to follow an innovative and multi-pronged approach to open up new areas and unlock new potentials of cooperation. Committed to greater two-way openness, the two sides will expand investment and market access to create more opportunities for the business communities. We will continue to leverage the role of large and medium-sized companies as the main force to advance major strategic projects, and attract small and medium-sized firms to the cooperation in emerging industries such as e-commerce and the digital economy to drive sustained growth of the bilateral cooperation. The two sides will continue to expand technological cooperation. Both China and Russia have built a solid foundation for innovation, and are pursuing innovation-driven development. We have designated the years of 2020 and 2021 "Year of Scientific and Technological Innovation" in each other's countries. We will use this opportunity to integrate China's industrial, capital and market advantages with Russia's strengths in resource, technology and talent to lend new impetus to our economic and social progress. I am confident that with the joint efforts of the two governments and business communities, China-Russia practical cooperation will achieve more fruitful results and deliver greater benefits to people of the two countries in the new era.
Q3. Some observers have noted a slowdown in China's growth in recent years. Do you see this as a threat to the rising living standards of the Chinese people? Is there any "red line" for the slowdown of GDP growth? Will China adjust its social and economic development plan amid such a complex situation?
Li:
After decades of high-speed growth, China's GDP reached US$13.6 trillion last year, accounting for nearly 16% of the global economy. The projected targets for China's economic development this year include 6-6.5% of growth in GDP, around 5.5% of surveyed urban unemployment and around 3% of CPI increase. The first eight months saw overall stability and steady progress in China's economic performance. In the first half of this year, GDP grew by 6.3% year-on-year, major economic indicators were consistent with expectations and maintained within a proper range, the economic structure continued to improve, and positive factors for high-quality development increased. In today's complex international environment, it is no mean feat for China to sustain a medium-high growth of above 6% on top of such a large base. This growth speed is among the highest in the major economies.
The Chinese government takes economic development as the central task and works to better ensure and improve people's well-being in the process of development. Despite a slower growth and increased fiscal constraints in recent years, government spending in meeting essential livelihood needs has kept expanding, delivering continued improvement in people's lives.
First, we have kept personal income growth basically in step with economic growth. China's per capita GDP has reached nearly US$10,000. People's per capita disposable income has grown by over 7% on average annually. The urban-rural income gap has continuously narrowed. By the end of last year, rural poor population had dropped to 16.6 million and we expect to achieve the goal of making abject poverty history in China next year.
Second, we have ensured overall stability in employment. Employment is of paramount importance to people's lives. The Chinese government puts stable employment high on its agenda and its efforts to maintain steady growth are primarily aimed at ensuring employment. When there is relatively full employment, steady income increase and improvement in the environment, we can well live with some fluctuations of growth speed relative to our projected target. We are implementing an employment-first policy and taking a wide range of measures to ensure and expand employment. Over 13 million new urban jobs have been created each year in the past six years, and the surveyed urban unemployment rate nationwide has been kept at around 5%, a relatively low level. China, a major developing country with close to 1.4 billion people, has achieved fairly full employment .
Third, we have enhanced social security and accelerated the development of social undertakings involving education, medical care, aged care, culture and sports. We have kept budgetary spending on education at above 4% of GDP. We have put in place the world's largest social safety net and kept raising the subsistence allowance in urban and rural areas and assistance benefits for entitled groups. The life expectancy of the Chinese people has reached 77 years and they now lead a much better and more fulfilling life.
That said, China's economy also faces certain downward pressure due to the slowing global growth and rising protectionism and unilateralism. Yet China's economy has tremendous resilience, potential and flexibility. First, the huge domestic market will unleash continued demand to drive growth. China is both a "world factory" and a "world market". Its consumer spending is upgrading at a faster pace, and there is massive investment demand in infrastructure development and technological transformation of enterprises. The expanding domestic demand has become a strong underpinning for China's economy in withstanding external shocks.
Second, deepening reform and opening-up will further energize the economy. China is making great efforts to advance market-oriented reform and expand opening-up, with a focus on fostering a more enabling and market-based business environment governed by a sound legal framework. There are over 110 million market entities in China and more than 19,000 businesses get registered every day on average. The passion among the hundreds of millions of Chinese people for career advances and entrepreneurial success provides an inexhaustible driving force for development. In the meantime, foreign investment in China has maintained steady growth.
Third, ample means and capabilities for macro regulation at our disposal will help to foster a stable environment for development. In face of the downward economic pressure over the past few years, the Chinese government has refused to flood the economy with massive stimulus. Instead, we have developed new and improved approaches to macro regulation, kept a fairly low debt-to-GDP ratio, and preserved policy space for tackling potential risks.
In response to the new developments in the economic situation, the Chinese government will, while keeping the macro policies consistent and stable, properly employ counter-cyclical regulatory tools. We will execute large-scale tax and fee cuts, increase the use of special bonds, lower financing costs and encourage business start-ups and innovation so as to strengthen the foundation for the micro economy. The Chinese government has full confidence and ability in overcoming the risks and challenges and maintaining steady and sound economic development.
Q4. In today's complex international landscape where global cooperation in the political and economic domains faces various setbacks, what kind of strategy will China take? Will China remain a supporter for globalization?
Li:
Since the end of World War II, the world has maintained overall peace and more and more countries have embarked on a path to development and prosperity. Economic globalization has played an important role therein. China's journey of development has been one in which the country has actively integrated itself into economic globalization and shared opportunities with other countries in the past 40-plus years of reform and opening-up. China has been both a beneficiary of and a contributor to economic globalization. In this process, China's GDP as a share of the global economy increased from 1.8% in 1978 to 15.9% in 2018. And China has become the world's second largest economy and a major trading partner and important export market for over 130 countries and regions. That said, we have also endured a great deal of pressure, paid a heavy price, and experienced much pain. Yet we have stayed the course and opened China's doors even wider, as we are convinced that economic globalization is an irreversible trend of our times.
Admittedly, as economic globalization develops, problems have emerged such as lack of inclusiveness as reflected in uneven access to opportunities and benefits and shocks to traditional industries and their workforce. Resolving these problems takes a comprehensive and in-depth analysis to identify the root causes and take targeted responses, rather than simplistically blame everything on economic globalization. As a Russian saying says, "A person who cannot walk will not fall." Likewise, one should not just complain about the uneven road and refuse to keep walking after spraining his ankle.
The world is seeing increasing uncertainties and destabilizing factors. Multilateralism and free trade now face mounting new challenges. In such a context, whether to keep the door open or to build fences, help each other or go it alone, enhance trust or nurse suspicions has become a question that every country must think hard about.
As the largest developing country in the world, China will keep to the path of peaceful development and follow the principle of promoting shared benefits through extensive consultation and joint contribution in global governance. We will enhance friendly relations and mutually beneficial cooperation with other countries on the basis of mutual respect and equality, and work with them to uphold multilateralism and support the UN in playing a central role in international affairs. We will step up South-South cooperation and deepen North-South cooperation, and promote a new type of international relations and the building of a community with a shared future for mankind.
The role of economic globalization and free trade as the cornerstone of global development and prosperity must not be shaken. China will continue to steadfastly support economic globalization, and work with other countries to safeguard the multilateral trading system centered around the World Trade Organization, support reforming the WTO as necessary, and promote global trade and investment liberalization and facilitation, thus realizing a more open, inclusive and balanced economic globalization that benefits all and contributes more to human progress.
Q5: The Russian authorities have recently expressed concern over massive illegal logging in east Russia. The minister for natural resources has suggested enlisting China into the effort to solve this problem. How do you see a joint investment program between China and Russia for the restoration of Russian forests?
Li:
Mankind has but one Earth, which is home to us all. Protecting the ecological environment is the shared responsibility of all countries. China attaches great importance to ecological progress. We are stepping up efforts on pollution control and ecological enhancement, and vigorously pursuing green development. We firmly support Russia in strictly regulating its forestry development, tackling illegal logging and holding the lawbreakers to account. We are also ready to share with Russia our experience and practice in this respect.
Recent years have seen fast growth of China-Russia investment cooperation in forestry. This has become an important and highly promising area of bilateral economic cooperation and trade. The companies and people from both countries have benefited enormously from such cooperation. Chinese companies have invested over US$3 billion in Russia's forestry, creating a large amount of local jobs. We will continue to encourage well-equipped, capable and reputable enterprises to invest or do business in Russian forestry, especially processing, in accordance with local laws and regulations. We support companies of the two sides in carrying out development and conservation in an equal and mutually beneficial manner in forest cultivation and reforestation to raise the quality of China-Russia forestry cooperation. At the same time, we hope that Russia will create a more open, stable and predictable environment for the investment cooperation between Chinese and local companies and protect their lawful rights and interests.
In addition to forestry, China and Russia have enormous space for cooperation in environmental protection. We are ready to work with Russia to leverage our comparative strengths and enhance cooperation in environmental industries and technologies in line with our respective national conditions and needs to promote simultaneous progress in economic development and environmental protection and advance green development of our two countries."
"Dalian, 2 July 2019
Professor Klaus Schwab,
Your Excellencies Heads of State and Government,
Distinguished Guests,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
It is a great pleasure for me to come back and meet with all of you in this beautiful city of Dalian. On behalf of the Chinese government, I would like to offer warm congratulations on the opening of the 13th Annual Meeting of the New Champions. My sincere welcome goes to all distinguished guests and journalists who have come all the way to join this event.
In the current international context, the focus of this year’s Annual Meeting on globalization issues is highly relevant. In his important remarks at the G20 Osaka Summit held last week, President Xi Jinping further elaborated on China’s position and propositions on economic globalization and reaffirmed China’s readiness to work with the international community in steering economic globalization in the right direction.
There has been much discussion on economic globalization in the international arena in recent times. First and foremost, we need to recognize that economic globalization, which is a natural requirement and outcome of social productivity growth and scientific and technological progress, has broadened the markets for producers, offered more choices to consumers, and brought about more efficient allocation of resources and factors of production. It has enabled better international division of labor and more effective leveraging of countries’ comparative strengths, thus bolstering the sustained growth of the world economy for the past few decades. Overall this process has delivered benefits to all countries across the world.
The latest round of industrial revolution, born in the age of economic globalization, has closely knitted together global industrial, innovation and value chains thanks to the ubiquitous, networked platforms. This has not only injected fresh impetus into world economic development, but also lowered the threshold for access, presenting unprecedented opportunities for equal and convenient participation and vigorously enhancing inclusive growth.
We now live in a world of profound economic interdependence. Countries rely on each other’s markets. No country can single-handedly provide all the resources and factors of innovation for producers, or offer all the needed goods and services to consumers. Nor can any country sustain its development in isolation from the global system of division of labor. Having said that, we need to acknowledge the lack of inclusiveness that has arisen in the course of economic globalization, such as inequality in opportunity, uneven benefit distribution and shocks to traditional industries and employment. For these issues, we need to make comprehensive and in-depth analyses to find out the root causes and address them with targeted solutions. A problematic tendency we see right now is to simplistically make a scapegoat of economic globalization, which instead of helping matters in any way, will only undercut the foundation of world economic and trade growth.
It is crucial that countries remain committed to the general direction of economic globalization, and advance trade and investment liberalization and facilitation. At the same time, we need to improve institutional arrangements to promote equal rights, equal opportunities, and fair rules for all, so as to better adapt to and guide economic globalization in the direction of mutually beneficial, balanced and inclusive development. At the national level, countries need to pursue inclusive growth by improving the income distribution system, and deliver the benefits of growth more widely in their societies. The international community needs to increase assistance to the less developed countries, and support their deeper integration into the global industrial, innovation and value chains, so that they can grow their economy, create more jobs, and improve their people’s well-being.
Risks facing the world economy have increased to a certain extent, from a slow-down in international trade and investment, intensified negative impact of protectionism, to greater uncertainties and destabilizing factors. In response, various countries have taken proactive measures, such as cutting interest rates or signaling more accommodative policies. Human society makes progress by drawing on past experience and lessons. Years ago, we jointly tackled the international financial crisis by coordinating our policies and achieved notable results. We should earnestly learn from and carry on this experience. At the same time, the medium- and long-term effects of the quantitative easing and excessive money supply adopted in the wake of the crisis should be evaluated, and the pros and cons of such policies should be weighed carefully.
In the face of the downward trends in the world economy, countries need to renew the spirit of partnership as we are all passengers in the same boat. We need to maintain equal consultations, seek common ground while shelving or managing our differences, and forge synergies. The rules-based, WTO-centered multilateral trading system is the bedrock of economic globalization and free trade, and an important underpinning for steady global growth. Its authority and efficacy should be respected and safeguarded. China supports necessary reforms of the WTO. Nevertheless, its fundamental principles such as free trade should be upheld, and the WTO should not waver in fulfilling its mission of opening markets and promoting development and in moving in the important direction of narrowing the development gap and North-South divide.
The Belt and Road Initiative proposed by China aims to promote inclusive development by encouraging the integration of more countries and regions into economic globalization. It has created new opportunities for countries and businesses around the world. We welcome the active participation of all parties in order to achieve interconnected and win-win development through mutually beneficial cooperation.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
In the past 40-plus years of reform and opening-up, China has shared opportunities and benefits with other countries through opening-up and actively integrated itself into the international division of labor and the global industrial, innovation and value chains. In this process, we endured huge pressure, paid high prices, and experienced a lot of pain. But we saw economic globalization as an irreversible trend and never lost sight of the general direction of integrating into the world economy. We stood firm in the face of all difficulties and our efforts finally paid off: China has not only achieved its own development, but also brought benefits to the whole world.
The past four decades and more saw China open itself ever wider to the world and fully honor its commitments. China fulfilled all its WTO accession commitments regarding tariff reduction as early as in 2010, lowering its overall tariff level from 15.3 percent before accession to 9.8 percent. On top of that, China’s repeated voluntary moves to cut tariffs in recent years have brought its overall tariff level further down to the current 7.5 percent. According to WTO figures, China’s trade-weighted average tariffs stand at 5.2 percent, lower than most other developing countries and higher than the average level of developed countries by less than 3 percentage points.
We have opened up our markets further by rolling out nationwide the management system of pre-establishment national treatment plus a negative list. China’s manufacturing sector has been basically opened up; restrictions on access to the modern services sector are being reduced; the opening of the financial sector has notably accelerated, leading to a visibly higher level of openness. China is also working to improve its laws to better protect intellectual property rights and step up law enforcement in this area. In 2018, China paid more than US$30 billion in royalties for foreign patents and technologies, a nearly fourfold increase compared with 10 years ago. The amount of paid-in foreign investment in China continued to grow last year, bucking the trend of shrinking FDI worldwide.
Going forward, no matter how the international situation may evolve, China will remain firmly committed to all-round opening-up and building an open economy of a higher standard. We will advance the opening-up of the manufacturing sector by following through on the commitment to ease foreign equity restrictions such as in the auto industry, encouraging foreign investment in high-quality manufacturing, and supporting foreign businesses in investing in advanced manufacturing such as electronics and information technology, equipment manufacturing, pharmaceuticals and new materials and in central and western China. Foreign businesses making such investments will be eligible for preferential treatment in terms of import of self-use equipment, corporate income tax and land use.
The financial and other modern services sectors will also be further opened up. We will move up the lifting of foreign ownership caps in securities, futures and life insurance from 2021 to 2020. Restrictions on foreign investment in value-added telecommunication services and transportation will be reduced, and foreign-funded institutions will receive national treatment in credit investigation, credit rating and payment. Two-way opening of the bond market will be expanded. The reform of the exchange rate mechanism and the convertibility of the RMB under the capital account will be taken forward in a steady manner. The RMB exchange rate will remain generally stable at an adaptive and equilibrium level. China will not engage in competitive devaluation. We will continue to lower overall tariffs voluntarily, remove non-tariff barriers, actively increase the import of goods and services, and enhance import facilitation.
We will further improve laws and regulations concerning opening-up and expedite the drafting of supporting rules and regulations for the
Foreign Investment Law
, which is expected to be finished by the end of this year and enter into force along with the
Foreign Investment Law
on 1 January 2020. In the meantime, we will move faster to overhaul laws, regulations and normative documents that are incompatible with the
Foreign Investment Law
, and will eliminate all remaining restrictions outside the negative lists for the access of foreign investment by the end of this year. We will strengthen IPR protection and introduce a punitive compensation mechanism to crack down hard on all kinds of infringements and counterfeiting. Efforts in all the above areas will make China even more open, transparent and predictable for foreign investment and improve the overall investment environment in this country. The world economy stands to benefit from a more open China.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
As we head into the second half of this year, the performance of the Chinese economy may be a topic of great interest to many of you. On the whole, the Chinese economy has registered steady growth and has been operating within a proper range. The economic fundamentals remained stable with a positive momentum. Major economic indicators match our expectations. More jobs have been created, as can be seen from the relatively low surveyed urban unemployment rate in May, which was around 5 percent. The economic structure has continued to improve. The services sector has been steadily expanding; profit growth of industrial enterprises has re-entered positive territory; the growth of high-tech manufacturing and strategic emerging industries has notably outstripped that of the overall industrial sector; and a bumper harvest for summer grains is on the horizon. Consumer prices increased mildly. And foreign exchange reserves have remained stable and saw a moderate increase. In the first five months of this year, the average number of newly-registered businesses has risen substantially to 18,900 every day, reflecting vibrant start-up and innovation activities and confidence among market entities across the country.
That being said, the Chinese economy does face some new downward pressure. The increase in uncertainties and destabilizing factors externally is affecting some businesses and weighing on export and market expectations. Slowing growth in effective domestic investment has added to the difficulty in maintaining stable economic performance. Yet, we have long seen challenges coming and have been making full preparations by acting proactively to tackle head-on the complex and difficult situation both at home and externally. Such efforts, especially larger-scale tax and fee cuts, have produced initial results. With its huge market, ample human resources, full-fledged industrial system and dynamic new growth drivers, the Chinese economy enjoys solid overall strength and resilience, potential and flexibility, sufficient to sustain its sound development in the long term.
In the coming months and years, we will unswervingly focus on development as China’s top priority. We will continue to follow the guiding principle of pursuing progress while ensuring stability, step up efforts in reform and opening-up, deepen the supply-side structural reform, and work holistically to pursue stable growth, continued reforms, structural adjustments, and higher living standards, and guard against risks while ensuring stability. We will work to ensure stable employment, a stable financial sector, stable foreign trade, stable foreign investment, stable domestic investment, and stable expectations. We will maintain economic performance within the proper range, pursue high-quality economic development, and make sure this year’s main economic and social development goals will be achieved.
To this end, we must implement well the macro policy measures we have introduced, continue to improve macro regulation in innovative ways, and do a good job in anticipatory adjustment and fine-tuning in order to create conditions for the steady operation of the economy. This does not mean that we will resort to massive stimulus measures, or return to the old approach of expansion in scale and inefficient growth. Maintaining stable growth, first and foremost, is to ensure stable employment, which is a key parameter defining the proper range of economic performance. We cannot allow mis-steps when it comes to employment. We must fully implement the employment-first policy, encourage job creation through business start-ups, strengthen support for flexible and new forms of employment, and keep employment stable and expanding through various means.
Reform is the fundamental driving force for development. We will continue to deepen reforms to foster a world-class, market-oriented business environment governed by law and further invigorate all market entities. Improving the business environment is a crucial step in unlocking and strengthening productive forces and enhancing global competitiveness. China will slash taxes and fees to reduce the burden and pressure on market entities. At the same time, we will streamline administration, delegate power, improve compliance oversight and provide better services to give a boost to all market players. These two major initiatives are mutually reinforcing and will foster strong synergy in energizing the market and improving the business environment.
Larger-scale tax and fee cuts are being implemented as scheduled. Timely measures will be taken to address problems down the road to ensure their full implementation. We will continue to deepen the above-mentioned reform of government functions to further ease market access, substantially reduce the number of items requiring administrative permits, and rescind any management measures that may involve approvals in disguised forms. Bottlenecks hindering businesses’ ability to start operations and obtain construction permits will be eliminated. We will promote fair and impartial regulation, improve government services, strengthen protection of property rights in accordance with the law, and create a market environment where companies under all types of ownership and from both home and abroad are treated as equals and compete on a level playing field.
To ease the difficulties faced by enterprises in accessing affordable financing, we have taken a combination of measures from cutting the required reserve ratio and real interest rates to expanding direct financing and supporting accelerated development of market-based venture capital. These measures have significantly improved access to financing and lowered the overall costs.
China now has 76 million plus self-employed traders, creating about 200 million jobs, and over 36 million companies, 90 percent of which are medium, small and micro businesses. Given their sheer numbers and the wide range of sectors they cover, these businesses play an important role in generating jobs, facilitating people’s daily lives and stimulating consumption. They deserve every support from the government. We will enhance inclusive financial services and encourage financial institutions to provide more loans to small and micro businesses through targeted cuts in the required reserve ratio, targeted Medium-term Lending Facility and higher tolerance for nonperforming loan ratio. We will support big enterprises in working with medium, small and micro companies in an integrated way to better leverage their comparative strengths and form more competitive industrial chains.
We will foster a more enabling environment for the development of private businesses. We will fully implement fiscal support policies such as general-benefit tax and fee cuts, increase policy loan guarantee, make good use of the instruments for supporting bond financing for private businesses, and remove all implicit barriers to private investment. When we can secure a sound business environment where hundreds of millions of market entities are invigorated and motivated, we will have a solid foundation for the steady growth of the Chinese economy.
Innovation is a key engine of development. We will fully implement the strategy of innovation-driven development and cultivate and strengthen new drivers of growth. We will better harness scientific and technological progress to support development. Measures such as allowing additional tax deductions for R&D spending will be implemented and improved to encourage greater R&D input from the business sector, and innovation results will be applied and commercialized at a faster pace. We will support the upgrading of Internet Plus and expand Intelligent Plus to empower the transformation and upgrading of traditional industries. A prudent yet accommodating regulatory approach will remain in place to sustain the healthy growth of emerging industries. We will promote faster development of modern vocational education, and train high-caliber skilled workers in all professions. The nationwide business start-up and innovation initiative will be taken forward. We will further improve policies supporting innovation-driven development, enhance public services across the board, build open and sharing platforms, and make our economy more innovative and competitive.
The purpose of China’s development is to improve the lives of our people. Their aspiration for a better life motivates all our endeavors. We will work to foster a healthy cycle of economic growth and higher living standards for the people, and continue to unleash domestic demand. China has nearly 1.4 billion people and boasts a middle-income population of over 400 million. The upgrading of consumption that comes with better lives for the people entails huge market demand. So our efforts to meet people’s needs for a better life will create boundless opportunities for fostering a robust market and stronger growth drivers. We will encourage a greater role of the private sector in developing social services to increase the supply of medical, cultural, tourism and sports services, and target the most acute bottlenecks affecting the daily lives of our people, by accelerating the development of community-based elderly care and childcare services. We will adopt pro-consumption policies to unlock the potential of consumption and make people’s lives better.
Effective investment will be scaled up as needed to promote the construction of public utilities, roads and new-generation information infrastructures. Sprucing up aging residential areas in cities is not only the call of our people, but also a means to stimulate effective investment and consumption. This year, pilot programs in this endeavor will be intensified with funding support from the central government and the participation of the private sector through market-based modalities.
Delivering a better life to our people is a never-ending process. The Chinese government will continue to put people first in pursuing development, explore innovative means to enhance people’s well-being, and provide more quality public goods and services to better share the fruits of reform and development among our people.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
The Annual Meeting of the New Champions has been held in China for 13 years. When it was launched 13 years ago, the new round of industrial revolution was just on the horizon, globalization was picking up pace, and new forms of business, new technologies and new business models were burgeoning. The focus on “New Champions” for the Summer Davos back then still remains meaningful today. Many growth enterprises, which were mere seedlings a dozen or so years ago, have grown into “towering trees”. We would like to see that all types of market players, large companies and growth enterprises alike, compete on a level playing field and achieve common development. We hope that companies with famous brands and long traditions will continue their record of excellence, and more small and medium-sized firms will stand out and become “New Champions”.
Openness, inclusiveness and win-win cooperation are the sure way to lasting prosperity of the world economy. China is prepared to join hands with all other countries to make economic globalization more open, inclusive, balanced and beneficial for all, and together create a brighter future for humankind!
In conclusion, I wish the Annual Meeting of the New Champions 2019 a full success!"
"Remarks by H.E. Xi Jinping
President of the People's Republic of China
On Global Economy and Trade at the G20 Summit
Osaka, 28 June 2019
Dear Colleagues,
It is my great pleasure to join you here in Osaka.
Ten years after the 2008 international financial crisis, the global economy has again reached a crossroads. Protectionism and unilateralism are spreading, and trade and investment tensions are on the rise, bringing disruptions to the global industry landscape and financial stability. The world economy is confronting more risks and uncertainties, dampening the confidence of international investors.
The G20 is the premier forum for international economic cooperation. We, as the leaders of major economies, are duty bound to re-calibrate the direction of the world economy and global governance at this critical juncture, work together to boost market confidence, and bring hope to our people.
- We must respect the objective laws of the economy. Economic operation has its underlying laws. Fully respecting these laws, leveraging the role of the market and removing man-made obstacles represent a sure way to raise productivity, boost trade and revitalize all industries.
- We must tap into the prevailing trend of development. The history of human society is marked by a transition from isolation and exclusion to openness and integration. This is an unstoppable trend. We must open up further to embrace opportunities of development and seek win-win outcomes through closer cooperation. We must work together to shape and steer economic globalization in the right direction.
- We must keep in mind our shared future. In today's world, all countries' interests are closely intertwined. We have a high stake in each other's future. By expanding common interests and taking a long-term view, we can realize enduring peace and prosperity in the world and deliver a better life to all our people. We must not allow ourselves to become prisoners of short-term interests and make irrevocable mistakes of historic consequences.
Based on these principles, I would like to share with you a few suggestions:
First, we need to persist in reform and innovation to find more impetus for growth. The world economy is in a transition from old to new drivers of growth. We must find the best way to advance structural reform. We must develop a future-oriented industry structure, policy framework and management system through promoting the digital economy, enhancing connectivity and improving social security, so as to enhance the efficiency and resilience of our economies and strive for high-quality development. We must capitalize on the historic opportunities brought by new technologies, industries and forms of business to foster an enabling market environment where innovation is respected, protected and encouraged. We must champion international collaboration on innovation and rise above geographic and man-made fences. When we put our heads together to resolve the common challenges and spread the fruits of innovation, we can make a difference for more countries and for the life of their peoples.
Second, we need to progress with the times and improve global governance. With economic globalization facing headwinds, we must reflect on the important question of how best to improve global governance. The G20 should continue to take the lead in making the world economy open, inclusive, balanced and beneficial for all. We must strengthen the multilateral trading system and pursue WTO reform as necessary. The goal of the reform is to bring the WTO up to date and make it better able to deliver its mandate of enhancing market openness and boosting development, and the results should be conducive to upholding free trade and multilateralism and to narrowing the development gap. At the same time, the G20 must also anticipate future systemic financial risks and challenges at the global level. We must ensure sufficient resources for the financial safety net and see to it that the representativeness of the international financial architecture makes more sense and better reflects the realities of the world economy. This not only is a matter of fairness, but also affects our ability to take targeted and effective measures to meet challenges and navigate crises when they come our way. It is also very important for the G20 to implement the Paris Agreement and improve energy, environmental and digital governance.
Third, we need to rise up to challenges and break bottlenecks in development. The myriad challenges facing the world today are all related in one way or another to the development gap and deficit. The gaping shortfall in global development financing means that the realization of the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development remains a daunting task for us. It is against such a backdrop that China proposed the Belt and Road Initiative. The Initiative is designed to mobilize more resources, strengthen connectivity links, leverage potential growth drivers, and connect the markets with a view to integrating more countries and regions into economic globalization and achieving shared prosperity through mutually beneficial cooperation. The success of the Second Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation demonstrates the broad welcome and support for this Initiative from the global community, as it effectively responds to the aspirations of our people and the trend of our times. It is important that the G20 continue to prioritize development in macroeconomic policy coordination, scale up input in development, and lead development cooperation through concrete actions. By doing so, we can live up to the expectations of developing countries and secure a lasting driving force for global growth.
Fourth, we need to uphold our partnership and resolve differences properly. The G20 is a grouping of major advanced economies and emerging markets, accounting for nearly 90% of the global economy. Given the different development stages of G20 members, it is only natural that we may have diverging interests and views on some issues. The important thing is to always promote our partnership and treat each other with respect and trust, and in that spirit, engage in consultation as equals, manage differences while seeking common ground, and build greater consensus. If this can be achieved between major countries, it will serve not only our own interests but also peace and development in the world.
Colleagues,
The Chinese economy has continued its stable and sound performance, with its GDP growing within a proper range of more than 6% for years running. On top of the steps we have taken recently, China will further unveil major measures aimed at breaking new ground in opening-up and delivering high-quality development.
First, more will be done to open up the Chinese market wider. We will release the 2019 edition of the negative list on foreign investment. The focus will be on greater openness in the agriculture, mining, manufacturing and services sectors. We will set up six new pilot free trade zones and open a new section of the Shanghai Pilot Free Trade Zone, and will speed up exploration of building a free trade port in Hainan province.
Second, greater initiative will be demonstrated in expanding imports. We will further bring down China's overall tariff level, strive to remove non-tariff trade barriers, and slash institutional costs of imports. We will ensure the success of the Second China International Import Expo.
Third, more steps will be taken to improve the business environment. In the new legal framework for foreign investment that is to take effect on 1 January next year, we will introduce a punitive compensation mechanism for intellectual property infringement cases and make the relevant civil and criminal laws more stringent to deliver better IP protection.
Fourth, equal treatment will be extended to all foreign investment. We will lift all foreign investment restrictions beyond the negative list, and provide equal treatment to all types of businesses registered in China in the post-establishment phase. A complaint mechanism will be set up for foreign companies to air their grievances.
Fifth, greater efforts will be made to advance trade talks. We will push for an early conclusion of the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) and for faster progress in the negotiations on a China-EU investment agreement and a China-Japan-ROK free trade agreement.
Let me conclude by saying that China has full confidence in following its path and running its own affairs well. At the same time, China will work in the spirit of peaceful co-existence and win-win cooperation with all other countries to build a community with a shared future for mankind and to tirelessly pursue a brighter future of the global economy.
Thank you."
"Remarks by H.E. Xi Jinping
President of the People's Republic of China
At the Fifth Summit of the
Conference on Interaction and Confidence-Building Measures in Asia
Dushanbe, 15 June 2019
Your Excellency President Emomali Rahmon,
Dear Colleagues,
It is my great pleasure to attend the Fifth Summit of the Conference on Interaction and Confidence-Building Measures in Asia (CICA) here in Dushanbe. I wish to thank the Tajikistan side for being such a thoughtful and hospitable host.
Establishing CICA was an important initiative proposed by Nursultan Nazarbayev, the first president of Kazakhstan. For the past 27 years, CICA, responding to the trend of the times, has been committed to strengthening trust and coordination among its member states and to promoting security and stability in our region, thus making a valuable contribution to peace and development in Asia.
It is with promoting regional peace and development in mind that I proposed, at the 2014 Shanghai Summit, a vision of common, comprehensive, cooperative and sustainable security, and called for exploring a security and development path that suits Asia and serves the common interests of all. My proposal found strong resonance. Over the past five years, the member states have rendered great support to China as a two-term Chair and to Tajikistan as the current Chair. We have strengthened understanding and cooperation among us, and worked together to secure new progress for CICA's development.
China will work with other member states to support the Chair, deepen cooperation across the board and take the CICA process to a new level. China will host a forum for the heads of military educational institutions of CICA member states and organize events on small and medium enterprises, financial services, environmental protection, poverty alleviation and people-to-people exchanges so as to play its due role in promoting CICA's development.
Dear Colleagues,
Asia is one of the most dynamic regions with great development potential. Asian countries also face some common challenges such as inadequate political trust, uneven economic development and prominent security and governance impediments. Our journey to lasting peace and common prosperity will be a long and arduous one.
An ancient Chinese philosopher once observed, "The gentleman devotes his attention to the basic of things. When he has mastered the basics, he will find the Way." In 2015, I put forth the initiative of building an Asian community with a shared future and laid out what we can all agree to in building a better Asia. Since then, we Asian countries have better appreciated the value of cooperation, extended our practice of cooperation and gained more experience of cooperation, thus truly moving toward an Asian community with a shared future. Under the current circumstances, we need to stay true to our goal, embrace the opportunities and address the challenges together, and collectively work for new progress of security and development in Asia.
- Building an Asia where countries enjoy mutual respect and trust is our common aspiration. Mutual respect and trust is required in developing state-to-state relations. We need to observe the purposes and principles of the UN Charter and respect the sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of each country and the political system and development path chosen by them. A zero-sum mentality and protectionism must be rejected in favor of more policy communication and political trust, so that we can expand our strategic consensus.
- Building a secure and stable Asia is our common objective. The vision of common, comprehensive, cooperative and sustainable security is about realizing the security of all countries in the region as a whole. Confrontation and alliances must be eschewed in favor of dialogue and partnership. We must find proper solutions to traditional and non-traditional security issues and, in particular, deal firmly with terrorism in all its forms. We must take effective preventive measures of various sorts to eradicate the breeding ground of extremist ideology, and explore a regional security architecture suited to Asia's realities, one that will enhance universal security for us all.
- Building a growing and prosperous Asia is our common vision. Development is the master key to all problems. We need to jointly promote trade and investment liberalization and facilitation, and conclude at an early date the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership and other documents on regional integration. We need to work on the follow-ups to the Second Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation held in April this year, seek greater complementarity between our development strategies, and enhance all-round connectivity to boost high-quality growth of all countries.
- Building an open and inclusive Asia is our common pursuit. Isolation would lead us nowhere, while openness would offer us infinite possibilities. We need to implement the consensus reached at last month's Conference on Dialogue of Asian Civilizations, and promote equality, mutual learning, dialogue and mutual accommodation between civilizations. We need to encourage more people-to-people exchanges among countries both in and outside the region so that when it comes to civilizations, respect for diversity will replace a sense of superiority, harmonious co-existence will replace conflict, interaction and sharing will replace estrangement, and prosperity and progress for all will replace self-imposed isolation and ossification.
- Building a cooperative and creative Asia is our common need. Reform and innovation is a powerful driving force behind the progress of human civilization. We must, in light of the changing times, translate our readiness for innovation into concrete actions, and break more new ground in theory, system, science and technology, and culture, among other areas, to keep the vibrancy of a growing Asia. We need to think outside the box to find new solutions to old problems and good solutions to new ones. This way, we will be better able to address the various challenges facing Asia.
Dear Colleagues,
China is committed to developing good-neighborly and friendly ties with other Asian countries. China has participated in the establishment of such multilateral security and development mechanisms as CICA, the Shanghai Cooperation Organization and the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, and supported the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation, the League of Arab States and other organizations in playing their active roles, thus making an important contribution to stability and prosperity in Asia. As a member of the Asian family and a responsible major country in the global community, China will continue to build peace, contribute to development and uphold order in the world, and work for a new type of international relations and a community with a shared future for mankind.
First, China will stay committed to peaceful development and reject a beggar-thy-neighbor approach. China will continue to deepen its friendship and cooperation with other countries on the basis of the Five Principles of Peaceful Co-existence, pursue peaceful settlement to disputes with relevant countries over territorial sovereignty and maritime rights and interests, and support negotiated solutions to regional hotspot issues.
Second, China will stay committed to opening-up for win-win outcomes and share development opportunities with other countries. China will work with all other parties to make good use of the platform of Belt and Road cooperation to secure a sustained driver for our common development. Later this year, China will host the Second China International Import Expo to further facilitate access to the Chinese market.
Third, China will stay committed to practicing multilateralism to safeguard the international order underpinned by international law. China will work with other countries to advocate extensive consultation, joint contribution and shared benefits in global governance, and firmly uphold the UN-centered international system and the multilateral trading system with the WTO at its core. With regard to any problem that occurs on the economic and trade front, all sides need to act in the spirit of mutual respect and handle it appropriately through equal-footed dialogue and consultation in accordance with norms in international relations and multilateral trading rules, rather than resort to protectionism and unilateralism at every turn. By taking such a position, China is upholding the legitimate development rights and interests of all countries and, for that matter, fairness and justice in the world.
Dear Colleagues,
As the great Tajik poet Rudaki wrote, "The wise pursue kindness and peace; only the fool are bent on strife and war." Let us join hands in a tireless pursuit of peace, stability and prosperity and usher in a brighter future for Asia and beyond.
Thank you."
"Remarks by H.E. Xi Jinping
President of the People's Republic of China
At the 19th Meeting of the Council of Heads of State of
The Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO)
Bishkek, 14 June 2019
Your Excellency President Sooronbay Jeenbekov,
Dear Colleagues,
It gives me great pleasure to attend the 19th meeting of the SCO Council of Heads of State in the beautiful city of Bishkek. Let me begin by thanking our host Kyrgyzstan for the great preparation and thoughtful arrangements for this event. China highly commends the tremendous efforts Kyrgyzstan has made to promote the development of the SCO since taking over the SCO presidency last June.
The SCO has maintained a sound momentum of development since the Qingdao Summit. The propositions on development, security, cooperation, civilization and global governance put forth by China at the Qingdao Summit were warmly received by all sides and added to the SCO's vision on cooperation. Guided by the Shanghai Spirit and the consensus of the leaders, SCO members have deepened cooperation in various fields and scored new achievements in moving the organization forward from a new starting point.
Despite immense changes in the international situation, peace, development and win-win cooperation remain the irreversible trend of our times. As a line in the Chinese classics goes, "Those who farm observe the shift of seasons, those who govern follow the change of the world." We need to keep a profound understanding of the overriding trend toward multi-polarity and economic globalization, draw inspiration from the wisdom of the Shanghai Spirit, and seek strength from solidarity and cooperation so as to jointly build a closer SCO community with a shared future.
First, we must make the SCO an example of solidarity and mutual trust. The SCO has maintained a strong momentum of development and become an important and constructive force for regional security, stability and prosperity. The ultimate reason for its success lies in the Shanghai Spirit, which calls for continued enhancement of solidarity and mutual trust. We have on our shoulders the expectations of the people of SCO countries and we must think and work in one mind to build the momentum we need to achieve our common goal.
The Shanghai Spirit embodies the core values and common vision of the SCO. It has to be upheld and kept up-to-date in light of the evolving circumstances and the development of the organization. We must abide by the purposes and principles established by the SCO Charter and the
Treaty on Long-term Good Neighborliness, Friendship and Cooperation
, strengthen political mutual trust, give each other greater support, expand convergence of interests and create more favorable conditions to deepen bilateral and multilateral cooperation.
Second, we must make the SCO an example of common security. Over the years, guided by the vision of common security and a shared future, SCO members have carried out practical and highly efficient cooperation on the security front and ensured the overall security and stability of the region. Facing grave challenges from terrorism, extremism and other threats, we must all act together and with forceful measures to tackle our common challenges.
We must pursue common, comprehensive, cooperative and sustainable security. We must further improve the legal foundation for security cooperation. We must step up information sharing, joint operations and cyber law enforcement to strengthen the SCO's ability to respond to complex situations. We must take a multi-pronged approach against terrorism, separatism and extremism, and fend off the resurgence of extremist and terrorist forces. As the SCO
Convention on Countering Extremism
enters into effect, we must further strengthen cooperation on deradicalization to curb the spread of extremist ideology. Afghanistan is neighbor to many SCO member countries and an important observer state of the organization. We have been following the developments in Afghanistan closely. Our thoughts are with the Afghan people who are suffering from war and chaos. The SCO firmly supports the Afghan-led and Afghan-owned peace and reconciliation process. We will make full use of the SCO-Afghanistan Contact Group, step up cooperation in various fields and play a constructive role in the early realization of peace, reconciliation, stability and development in Afghanistan. China will continue to do what it can to help with Afghanistan's peace and reconstruction.
Third, we must make the SCO an example of mutually beneficial cooperation. SCO countries enjoy a sound momentum of development on the whole, as evidenced by the steady increase of the region's share in the world economy and its contribution to global growth. Our region's incomparable advantages like rich natural endowment, a huge market, and strong scientific and technological innovation capability provide us with abundant driving force for development and bright prospects for cooperation. We need to seize the momentum and strive for new progress in the integrated development of the region.
We must uphold the multilateral trading system, build an open world economy, work toward more institutional arrangements on trade and investment liberalization and facilitation, and make full use of such cooperation and sharing platforms as the China International Import Expo to pursue greater economic openness, exchange and integration in our region. It is important that we earnestly deliver on the outcomes of the Second Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation (BRF) and give full play to the unique strengths of countries in the region to better synergize the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) with the development strategies of countries in the region as well as regional cooperation initiatives such as the Eurasian Economic Union (EAEU). We need to leverage the Joint Commission on Facilitation of International Road Transport and other relevant mechanisms to make railways, highways, and oil and gas pipelines more interconnected, so as to achieve all-round connectivity.
We need to pursue innovation-driven development and foster new areas of cooperation such as digital economy, e-commerce, artificial intelligence and big data. China will be happy to set up an SCO demonstration base in Shaanxi Province for exchange and training on agricultural technologies to strengthen cooperation on modern agriculture with other countries in the region.
Fourth, we must make the SCO an example of inclusiveness and mutual learning. Our region is home to many ancient civilizations where different nations, cultures and religions have coexisted and drawn strength from each other. We need to celebrate the diversity of civilizations as a precious asset of our region, and say no to the idea of clash of civilizations. We need to uphold openness, inclusiveness and mutual learning, with a view to creating durable impetus for the lasting friendship between our peoples and the common development of our countries.
We need to deepen our cooperation in culture, education, tourism, sports and media, and strengthen exchanges between women, the youth and other communities to ensure greater involvement of and greater benefit for our people. Last month, an International Medical Innovation and Cooperation Forum was successfully held in Fangchenggang in Guangxi Province of China, where participants from medical institutions and businesses of SCO countries reached extensive common ground on cooperation. We also support the initiative to set up an International Medical Opening-up Pilot Zone (China) in Fangchenggang to further promote medical innovation and cooperation within the SCO. China will be happy to host an SCO forum on traditional medicine in due time to help improve public health and medical services through traditional medicine. Since last year, Chelyabinsk of Russia and Chongqing of China have successfully held the first and second SCO Heads of Region Meetings. We need to earnestly implement the documents on sub-national cooperation to be approved by this summit and mobilize local governments and private actors to make sub-national cooperation a new highlight in our people-to-people cooperation.
Colleagues,
In the face of increasing global challenges, it is imperative that we live up to our international responsibilities, stay committed to the vision of global governance based on extensive consultation, joint contribution and shared benefits, and step up coordination and collaboration. It is imperative that we uphold the international system with the United Nations at its core, promote multilateralism and free trade and make the international order more just and equitable. The SCO needs to improve its network of partnerships, encourage broader participation in cooperation by observer states and dialogue partners, strengthen exchanges with the UN and other international and regional organizations, play a more active role in international and regional affairs, and jointly contribute to durable peace and common prosperity of the world.
Colleagues,
China extends congratulations to Kyrgyzstan for successfully hosting this summit upon wrapping up its SCO presidency, and to President Vladimir Putin for taking over the chairmanship of the SCO Council of Heads of State. China will work with all other SCO members to provide Russia with full support in its work.
As a Kyrgyz saying goes, "From solidarity comes our strength for survival." Let us act in the Shanghai Spirit, stay focused and take solid actions for an even brighter future of the SCO.
Thank you."
"Xi Jinping
President of the People's Republic of China
"The landscape is dotted with red flowers like brocade and glittering rivers like silver," a Chinese envoy wrote this line when traveling in Central Asia in the early 15th century. In this lovely season of mid-summer, I am delighted to pay a state visit to the Republic of Tajikistan at the invitation of President Emomali Rahmon. When I was first in your friendly country five years ago, I was greatly impressed by its majestic mountains, splendid culture and warm-hearted people. So I am very much looking forward to returning to Tajikistan, a land steeped in history, and meeting friends whose hospitality always makes me feel at home.
China and Tajikistan are close neighbors connected by mountains and rivers and a lasting bond of friendship between our peoples. More than 2,000 years ago, a Chinese imperial envoy named Zhang Qian traveled through harsh terrain to Central Asia. He pioneered what became known as the Silk Road, which saw flourishing interactions between various civilizations. Through the Silk Road, the forebears of our two nations exchanged goods and ideas and learned a great deal from each other. Xuan Zang, an eminent 7th century monk, and Chen Cheng, who wrote the poem I quoted earlier, traveled to Central Asia as Chinese envoys of friendship. The life stories of your historical and literary figures, such as Emir Ismail Samani and the famous poet Rudaki, are widely known in China. Sogdian musicians and dancers are prominently featured in the glazed potteries from China's Tang Dynasty (A.D. 618-907) preserved to this day. Through many centuries, the friendship of our two peoples has stood the test of time and external vicissitudes. It is as solid as the awe-inspiring Pamirs.
When Tajikistan gained independence 27 years ago, China was among the very first to recognize it. The inauguration of diplomatic ties enabled dynamic interactions between our peoples. Throughout these 27 years, our two countries have trusted and respected each other and engaged in cooperation for mutual benefit. Together, we have set a fine example of friendship and cooperation between countries different in system, culture and size.
- Based on trust and equality, China-Tajikistan friendship is rock solid. An ancient Chinese philosopher once noted, "In interactions with friends, one should keep his word and always be trustworthy." Mutual trust is at the heart of the comprehensive strategic partnership between China and Tajikistan. It has enabled us to successfully resolve the boundary issue left from the past, thus turning our 495-kilometer common border into a bond of friendship. On major issues that affect our respective core interests, we can always count on each other's understanding and support. Indeed, our two countries are good neighbors linked by mountains and rivers, good friends who trust each other with all sincerity, good partners engaged in win-win cooperation and good brothers who support each other all the time.
- Driven by mutual benefit, China-Tajikistan friendship is full of dynamism. Tajikistan is one of China's closest partners in Belt and Road cooperation. It was the first to sign a cooperation MOU with China on the Silk Road Economic Belt. A dedicated committee has since been established and a number of signature projects already completed. The Vahdat-Yavan railway has been completed along with bridges and tunnels, connecting the previously separated railways in southern and northern Tajikistan. The construction of a thermal power plant in Dushanbe has made winter brown-outs in the capital city a thing of the past. The 500-kilowatt high-voltage transmission line through the Districts of Republican Subordination has made the power grid in northern Tajikistan more stable and safer. Other projects, such as cement plants, an oil refinery, an agriculture and textile park and a smeltering and industrial park, have helped to fuel the industrialization of Tajikistan. China is now the biggest source of investment and a major trading partner for Tajikistan. In a few years, our two-way trade is expected to surpass US$3 billion. All of these are prime examples of our two countries pursuing shared prosperity on the basis of mutual complementarity.
- Strengthened by people-to-people ties, China-Tajikistan friendship is sure to last from generation to generation. The Chinese language is gaining popularity here, while the Chinese people are increasingly attracted to this country. Several Chinese universities have introduced courses on the Tajik language or set up centers on Tajikistan studies, and Mandarin is being taught in the two Confucius Institutes and two Confucius Classrooms hosted by Tajikistan. A few weeks ago, the Chinese version of President Rahmon's book, The Tajiks in the Mirror of History, was published in China, giving the Chinese people new insights into Tajikistan. Last month, "Tajikistan Cultural Day" events were successfully held in Beijing and Xi'an, introducing Tajik culture to a larger Chinese audience. Our two peoples are visiting each other as frequently as relatives do, further strengthening the foundation of our lasting friendship.
We live in a world of profound changes unseen in a century. Although peace and development remain the theme of the times, we are also witnessing rampant protectionism and unilateralism and rising uncertainty in various regions. This presents to the China-Tajikistan comprehensive strategic partnership both valuable opportunities for development and challenges more complex than ever. China stands ready to work with Tajikistan to fully leverage the opportunities and overcome the challenges together.
We need to deepen policy communication and devise master plans for developing China-Tajikistan relations from a strategic and long-term perspective. More frequent exchanges at the top level will be helpful, as well as closer cooperation between our governments, parliaments and political parties and at sub-national levels. We need to continue to give each other firm support on issues that touch our respective core interests and major concerns, with a view to consolidating the political foundation of China-Tajikistan relations for its enduring, steady growth.
We need to refine our blueprint for Belt and Road cooperation. We need to expand our cooperation on the basis of equality and mutual benefit, focus on strategic projects, and give priority to cooperation in energy, transportation, agriculture and industry. Trade and investment need to be continuously scaled up, and Tajikistan is more than welcome to increase exports to China through the China International Import Expo and other platforms. Our two countries must strive to build an architecture of practical cooperation that has rich substance and delivers tangible benefit to the people.
We need to forge a stronger people-to-people bond. By deepening cooperation in language education, translation of classics, archaeological excavation, cultural heritage protection, and film and TV program production, we can better draw on what our two ancient civilizations have to offer each other. Seeds of friendship must be sown among our young people, so that the torch of China-Tajikistan friendship will be passed to future generations.
We need to do all we can to deepen cooperation on fighting the three forces of terrorism, separatism and extremism as well as transnational organized crime, and on narcotics control and cybersecurity, thus providing greater security and stability for both our countries and our region.
We need to strengthen strategic collaboration in international affairs and deepen coordination in the United Nations (UN), the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) and the Conference on Interaction and Confidence-Building Measures in Asia (CICA). We need to jointly uphold multilateralism and the free trade system, oppose unilateralism and bullying tactics, and commit ourselves to improving and updating the global governance system.
In its 27-year history, CICA has responded to the call of the times and sought to enhance trust and collaboration among countries and uphold regional security and stability, making positive contributions to peace and development in Asia. At its 2014 summit in Shanghai, I articulated a new vision of common, comprehensive, cooperative and sustainable security and called for a security and development path that suits Asia and serves the common interests of all. My proposal has received a positive response from many parties. Over the last five years, CICA member states have broadened the approach and content of our cooperation, set up a Non-governmental Forum, Youth Council and Business Council under the CICA framework, and enhanced CICA's interaction with other multilateral institutions such as the UN and the SCO, giving a considerable boost to CICA's global standing.
Since assuming chairmanship, Tajikistan has worked hard for CICA's development. The Dushanbe Summit gives all of us - China, Tajikistan and other member states - an excellent opportunity to upgrade CICA cooperation and contribute more to the security and development of Asia and beyond.
As an ancient Chinese philosopher observed, "Even for small matters, success will not come without hard work." Likewise, a proverb in Tajikistan goes, "With perseverance, ants will be able to move mountains." My visit will send the message that China is ever ready to work unremittingly with Tajikistan to create a brighter future of our friendship."
"Q1. President Xi, you are going to pay a state visit to Russia and attend the 23rd St. Petersburg International Economic Forum. This year marks the 70th anniversary of China-Russia diplomatic relations. You and President Putin have often noted that the relationship is at its best in history. Could you give an overall assessment of the current state of our relations?
Xi:
At the invitation of President Vladimir Putin, I will soon pay a state visit to Russia and attend the 23rd St. Petersburg International Economic Forum. After I was elected President of the People's Republic of China six years ago, I chose Russia as the first stop of my first overseas trip. During that visit, President Putin and I jointly opened a new chapter of China-Russia relations. Over the past six years, I have paid seven visits to Russia. Every time I was there, I witnessed the deepening of friendship between our two peoples and the productive outcomes of our cooperation. As China and Russia greet the historic moment of the 70th anniversary of our diplomatic relations, I am glad to pay another visit to your vast and beautiful country with great expectations for a brighter future of our bilateral ties.
Indeed, after seven decades of development, China-Russia comprehensive strategic partnership of coordination is now at its best in history. Our two countries enjoy strong political trust and can always count on each other's firm support on issues concerning our respective core interests and major concerns. Guided and underpinned by full-fledged mechanisms of high-level visits and broad-based cooperation, our two sides have conducted substantive, wide-ranging and all-dimensional cooperation of strategic significance. The long-term development of China-Russia relations is blessed by the strong support of our people, who forged a profound friendship as comrades-in-arms in our great, heroic fight against Fascist aggression. Our two sides have also enjoyed close and effective coordination and collaboration in international affairs, thus contributing tremendous positive energy to a complex and fast-changing world.
Today, China-Russia relations are standing at a new starting point and facing new opportunities for growth. Building on our two countries' shared aspirations for development and revitalization and responding to our two peoples' shared desire for lasting friendship, we have the confidence and capability to bring our relations to a new era of greater development at a higher level, based on our experience and achievements of the past 70 years.
Our two countries need to stick together as good neighbors and render each other even stronger support. We need to work closely to seek greater synergy between our development strategies, deeper convergence of our development interests, and closer people-to-people ties. We need to find new areas of cooperation with innovative efforts as called for by the times so that our bilateral relations will always be forward-looking, break new ground, and brim with vigor and vitality. We need to play a more constructive role in international affairs with a great sense of mission and a strong commitment to win-win results, thus jointly promoting peace, stability, development and prosperity for all people of the world.
In my upcoming visit, I look forward to charting the course of our future relationship together with President Putin and to seeing that our comprehensive strategic partnership of coordination will stride into a new era.
Q2. China is Russia's biggest trading partner. What is the expectation for the bilateral trade volume this year? What are the most promising projects in economic cooperation and trade? What measures will China take to strengthen sub-national economic ties? How do you view the problems in bilateral business cooperation?
Xi:
Economic cooperation and trade, as a key pillar of our relations, is crucial to the common development and revitalization of China and Russia. Such cooperation has been deepening in recent years, producing fruitful outcomes and setting a prime example of mutually beneficial economic engagement. Our bilateral trade reached a record US$100 billion in 2018. These notable results of our business cooperation are especially valuable given the current complex environment of sluggish global trade and investment and surging protectionism in the world. The government departments of our two countries are taking proactive efforts to bring our trade volume to a higher level and promote high-quality development of bilateral trade.
Our two countries are steadily implementing major cooperation projects in energy, transportation, agriculture, aviation, space and other fields. The crude oil pipeline and its parallel pipeline are operating smoothly. The eastern route of the natural gas pipeline is nearing completion. The Chinese and Russian sections of the Blagoveshchensk-Heihe Highway Bridge and the Nizhneleninskoye-Tongjiang Railway Bridge have been successfully joined. Steady progress is being made in our joint research and development (R&D) of long-range, wide-body passenger aircraft and heavy-lift helicopter. Cooperation on our satellite navigation systems is highly productive. These are concrete examples to show that, through our joint efforts, our economic cooperation has entered a phase of fast development and great promise.
At the sub-national level, various regions in our two countries have seized the opportunity of the "2018-2019 year of sub-national cooperation and exchange" and harnessed various mechanisms for more frequent interactions and greater economic, trade and investment cooperation, which include the China International Import Expo and other business cooperation platforms, and the Northeast China-Russian Far East and the Yangtze River-Volga River cooperation mechanisms. The two sides have signed a Plan on Cooperation and Development in the Russian Far East Region (2018-2024) and a Development Plan for Agriculture in Northeast China and the Russian Far East and Baikal Regions. Constant updates are being made to the list of key investment projects under the Yangtze River-Volga River mechanism. All these are effective platforms for the two sides to leverage our comparative industrial strengths and deepen sub-national cooperation.
Of course, our bilateral business ties are not free from specific issues. But it is worth pointing out that they are the natural result of our deepening cooperation and growing shared interests. The most effective way to address them is to take an innovative and multi-pronged approach to expand cooperation areas and unlock the full potential of our practical cooperation, such as scaling up mutual investment, widening market access, facilitating trade and investment activities, and boosting cooperation in agricultural trade, e-commerce and trade in services. By enlarging common interests, we can upgrade our business cooperation so that it will improve in both quality and quantity.
Q3. Could you share some insights on China's economic outlook?
Xi:
The Chinese economy has achieved tremendous growth since the founding of New China 70 years ago, and especially since the start of reform and opening-up 40 years ago. China is now the world's second largest economy, the largest manufacturer, the largest trader in goods, and holder of the largest foreign exchange reserves. In 2018, the Chinese economy passed the RMB90 trillion yuan mark and per capita GDP was close to US$10,000. Our 6.6 percent economic growth rate, one of the highest in the world, meant that China accounted for around 30 percent of global growth last year.
In spite of a slowdown in global growth and trade, the Chinese economy has had a strong start this year with key economic indicators kept in a proper range. In the first quarter, our GDP grew by 6.4 percent, sustaining its momentum of steady growth in recent years and representing the 14th consecutive quarter of staying in the 6.4 percent to 6.8 percent range. Domestic consumption remained the main driver of growth. Employment continued to expand, with 4.59 million urban jobs added in the first four months of 2019. Personal income grew faster than the economy. Prices were generally stable, with consumer prices posting a modest growth of 2 percent. Total imports and exports were up by 4.3 percent year-on-year, and China's foreign exchange reserves stayed above US$3 trillion. Apart from all this, we were able to improve the economic structure, transform the model of development and enhance the quality and efficiency of economic performance, thus strengthening the momentum of steady and robust growth.
The trajectory of our economy toward more steady growth has not changed and will remain so in the long run. Looking ahead, a number of factors will support the steady, healthy and sustainable growth of the economy. These include: First, China's large pool of human resources. China has a population of nearly 1.4 billion, a 900-million-strong workforce, a talent pool of 170 million college graduates and people with professional skills, the world's largest middle-income population, and more than 100 million market entities. Second, China's strong internal driving forces. The Chinese economy is mainly driven by domestic consumption. In 2018, domestic consumption contributed 108.6 percent of economic growth; in particular, the contribution of final consumption was as high as 76.2 percent. Third, China's growing economic dynamism. China's R&D spending ranks second in the world, accounting for around 2.18 percent of its GDP. Emerging strategic industries, the sharing economy and other new economic forces are seeing continuous expansion. Fourth, China's mobilization capability. We have in China the strong leadership of the Communist Party of China, the political advantage that comes from being able to mobilize resources for major undertakings, the spirit of a nation united as one, the solid material and technological foundation built through decades of rapid development in the era of reform and opening-up, the enormous resilience, potential and flexibility in development, and the rich experience in macro-regulation as well as ample policy space. We therefore have all the necessary conditions as well as the capability and confidence to deal with any risks and challenges.
Q4. President Xi, you successfully hosted the second Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation (BRF) in April. How do you see the future of connecting the Eurasian Economic Union (EAEU) and the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI)? What is your take on the potential of the Arctic shipping routes and its significance for advancing Belt and Road cooperation? In what way will China participate in infrastructure development for the Arctic shipping routes?
Xi:
The BRI put forth by China aims to deepen practical cooperation focusing on connectivity, jointly address risks and challenges facing humanity, and bring about mutual benefit and common development. The second BRF held in Beijing last April was a great success. The participants had in-depth discussions on relevant topics and reached broad-based consensus on promoting high-quality Belt and Road cooperation supported by refined principles, clearer priorities and stronger mechanisms. We are highly appreciative that President Putin has attended both of the two BRFs held in 2017 and this year at my invitation.
The BRI and the EAEU are both committed to facilitating the development and rejuvenation of the participating countries and regions and to promoting open and inclusive cooperation in our region. China and Russia have shared interests in many areas of cooperation. In May 2015, President Putin and I signed a Joint Statement on Cooperation on Joint Silk Road Economic Belt and Eurasian Economic Union Projects, kicking off the process to connect the two initiatives. Last year, China signed an agreement on economic and trade cooperation with the EAEU. It was a significant first step and an important "early harvest" in connecting the two initiatives that provides the institutional underpinning for stronger economic cooperation and trade between the two sides. China will work with Russia to foster stronger synergy between the two initiatives in the spirit of mutual support, advance negotiations on an Eurasian economic partnership agreement, enhance facilitation of regional trade and investment, and make a still greater contribution to the development and rejuvenation of our two countries and the prosperity and stability of our region.
Development and use of the Arctic shipping routes will provide new opportunities, a new platform and new impetus for synergizing the BRI and the EAEU. It is also conducive to better connectivity and mutually beneficial cooperation among China, Russia and other relevant parties. Security and environmental protection are crucial in developing these routes. We encourage Chinese companies to take an active part and make practical contributions to the commercial operation of the Arctic shipping routes and local economic and social development. At the same time, environmental standards must be met and sustainability ensured in the development and use of the Arctic shipping routes. We hope there will be win-win results for all involved - a plus for both China-Russia cooperation and world economic growth.
Q5. How do you see China-Russia cooperation within the frameworks of BRICS and the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO), and the development prospects of the two?
Xi:
Over the last 10-plus years, BRICS countries have followed the BRICS spirit of openness, inclusiveness and win-win cooperation, deepened exchanges and cooperation in economic and financial, political and security, and cultural and people-to-people fields, making BRICS an important force that plays an active, stabilizing and constructive role in international affairs. It has been proven that BRICS represents the right direction of global development, as evidenced by its ever-widening cooperation and promising future.
Russia is the birthplace of the BRICS Summit. It was in Yekaterinburg that BRICS leaders held their first meeting in 2009, opening a historic chapter in BRICS cooperation. The adoption of the BRICS Economic Partnership Strategy at the 2015 Ufa Summit was another milestone in BRICS economic cooperation.
Coming from different continents, BRICS countries are brought together by a shared aspiration to grow our economies, deliver better lives for our peoples, and play a bigger role in regional and international affairs.
The world today is undergoing major changes rarely seen in a century. This means both opportunities and challenges for the development of BRICS countries. Such a backdrop makes it all the more important for our five countries to stay united in the spirit of equality and mutual assistance, and deepen the BRICS strategic partnership to defend the common interests and development space of emerging markets and developing countries and achieve development and progress for all. We BRICS leaders will meet again in Brasilia in November. I hope and believe that our five countries will work together for a fruitful Summit, and take further, solid steps toward our vision of the second Golden Decade.
China and Russia are comprehensive strategic partners of coordination, and important members of BRICS. Our two countries have had close communication and coordination within the BRICS framework. As Russia will take over the BRICS chairmanship next year, China looks forward to strengthening coordination with Russia to make sure that with the sustained efforts of successive chairmanships, BRICS cooperation will yield still greater results to deliver more benefits to the people of our five countries and contribute more to world peace and development.
The SCO is a successful example of the commitment of both China and Russia to forging a new type of international relations and a good platform for such efforts. In the 18 years since the SCO's inception, China and Russia have maintained close coordination and collaboration. As a result, the Organization has kept growing and made important contribution to peace, stability, development and prosperity in our region. As I see it, China-Russia cooperation in the SCO has the following features:
First, we have stayed committed to the Shanghai Spirit. The Shanghai Spirit of mutual trust, mutual benefit, equality, consultation, respect for diversity of civilizations, and pursuit of common development is the underlying philosophy of the SCO. China and Russia, together with other SCO member states, have firmly rejected such anachronistic ideas as clash of civilizations, Cold War mentality, and zero-sum game. Instead, we have forged a constructive partnership featuring non-alliance, non-confrontation and not targeting any third party, and set up a paradigm of a new type of international relations featuring mutual respect, fairness and justice, and win-win cooperation.
Second, we have stayed committed to advancing the security and development interests of SCO member states. Stability and development are the common pursuit of countries in our region. China and Russia have worked with other member states to deepen all-round cooperation in political, security, economic and cultural fields, make effective responses to new security threats and challenges, and seek greater complementarity between the BRI, the EAEU and other regional cooperation initiatives, and the development strategies of individual countries in pursuit of integrated development of our region. All these efforts have made the SCO irreplaceable for the lasting peace and stability of the whole region and the development and prosperity of individual countries.
Third, we have stayed committed to raising the global profile of the SCO. Our Organization is an important and constructive force in Eurasia. China and Russia, together with other member states, have engaged extensively in regional and international affairs, upheld international fairness and justice, supported the building of an open world economy, and promoted a fairer and more equitable international order.
The SCO, responsive to the call of our times for peace, development, cooperation and mutual benefit, enjoys strong vitality and a bright prospect. At last year's Qingdao Summit, we together drew up a blueprint for a new phase in the SCO development. The upcoming Bishkek Summit will therefore become a new starting point in the development of the Organization. China will work with Russia and other member states to enhance unity, mutual trust and cooperation in various areas so that our Organization will keep developing to add more stability and positive energy to the world and make unique contribution to the building of a community with a shared future for mankind.
Q6. How would you describe your personal friendship with President Putin?
Xi:
Since 2013, President Putin and I have met nearly 30 times on bilateral and multilateral occasions, and talked on the phone and written to each other many times. I keep fond memories of each interaction I had with President Putin. We have had in-depth and most wide-ranging exchanges on both major issues like the international situation, bilateral ties and governance, and more light-hearted topics like literature, art and sports. We have taken a high-speed train ride together, watched an ice hockey friendly between Chinese and Russian youth teams, celebrated his birthday in Bali, exchanged phone calls and congratulatory messages on each other's important festivals, and been awarded medals of the highest honor by each other's countries. I have had closer interactions with President Putin than with any other foreign colleagues. He is my best and bosom friend. I cherish dearly our deep friendship.
My engagement with President Putin is built on a high degree of mutual trust. That is the solid foundation of our close friendship. We treat each other with respect, candor, understanding and trust. We share similar views on the international landscape and approaches to national governance, and we both shoulder historical responsibilities for national development and rejuvenation. Most importantly, we share a high degree of consensus on the strategic significance of the China-Russia relationship and therefore the same resolve and desire to deepen and sustain its growth. I look forward to continued close interactions with President Putin. Together, we will take our bilateral ties to new heights and work tirelessly for the development and prosperity of our two great nations and for the happy lives of our peoples.
Q7. The situation in Syria is stabilizing. The Syrian government has repeated on many occasions that it is ready to work with all relevant parties and restore its war-ravaged infrastructure as soon as possible. Does China intend to take part in Syria's reconstruction? In Venezuela, the situation has flared up lately. What is China's assessment? In addition, the deepening political confrontation between the US and Iran is leading to rising tensions in the Persian Gulf. How does China see the prospects for resolving the Iranian nuclear issue?
Xi:
Syria is a time-honored civilization and an important country in the Middle East. It is heart-wrenching for us to see Syria caught in protracted turbulence that has wreaked havoc on its infrastructure and inflicted untold sufferings to its people. Fortunately, the situation there is improving, as the process of political settlement is making progress and the Syrian government and people are starting to rebuild their nation. The Chinese and Syrian people have long enjoyed a traditional friendship. As such, China stands ready to take part in Syria's reconstruction to the best of its capacity and help the Syrian people regain their normal life and work at an early day.
On Venezuela, China's position is consistent and clear. Bearing in mind the importance of upholding the UN Charter and the basic norms governing international relations, China maintains that the issue should be left to the government and opposition of Venezuela to resolve through inclusive political dialogue and independent consultation within the constitutional framework. China opposes external intervention, unilateral sanctions, and the use or threat of force. China will work with the rest of the international community to play a positive and constructive role on this issue, do more to facilitate talks for peace, and uphold international equity and justice, the purposes and principles of the UN Charter, and regional peace and stability to help Venezuela return to the track of normal development as soon as possible.
With the US imposing maximum pressure and unilateral sanctions on Iran in recent months, tensions have been escalating surrounding the Iranian nuclear issue, and for that matter, in the entire Middle East. Such developments are indeed a cause for concern. The Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), as the embodiment of multilateralism, is crucial for the international nuclear non-proliferation regime and for peace and stability in the Middle East. It must be respected and implemented effectively in its entirety. China and Russia have highly aligned views and positions on the Iranian nuclear issue with both countries calling on all relevant parties to act with reason and restraint and increase dialogue and consultation to deescalate the tensions. China and Russia will stay in close coordination to push for positive developments while upholding the authority of the UN, peace and security in the world, and the common interests of the international community. Besides, China will continue to stand firm for its own legitimate rights and interests in this process."
"Keynote Speech by H.E. Xi Jinping
President of the People's Republic of China
At the Opening Ceremony of
The Conference on Dialogue of Asian Civilizations
Beijing, 15 May 2019
Your Excellencies Heads of State and Government,
Your Excellencies Heads of International Organizations,
Distinguished Guests,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
In this lovely season of thriving green, I am delighted to join you, distinguished guests from 47 Asian countries and five continents, in a dialogue on deepening exchanges and mutual learning among civilizations. On behalf of the Chinese government and people and in my own name, I extend sincere congratulations on the opening of the Conference on Dialogue of Asian Civilizations and a very warm welcome to all of you!
The world today is moving toward greater multi-polarity, economic globalization and cultural diversity, and is becoming increasingly information-oriented. All this points to promising prospects for the future. Meanwhile, instability and uncertainties are mounting and the global challenges faced by humanity are becoming ever more daunting, calling for joint responses from countries around the world.
To meet our common challenges and create a better future for all, we look to culture and civilization to play their role, which is as important as the role played by economy, science and technology. The Conference on Dialogue of Asian Civilizations is convened just for this purpose, as it creates a new platform for civilizations in Asia and beyond to engage in dialogue and exchanges on an equal footing to facilitate mutual learning.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
Asia is home to one of the earliest human settlements and an important cradle of human civilizations. This vast and beautiful continent covers a third of the earth's land mass and has two-thirds of the world's population. It has more than 1,000 ethnic groups living in 47 countries. For several thousand years before the Common Era, our forefathers living along the Tigris and the Euphrates, the Indus and the Ganges, the Yellow River and the Yangtze, tilled and irrigated the land, made tools and utensils, and built homes to live in. Generation after generation, our ancestors in Asia, with their tireless endeavors, created a time-honored history and profound and rich civilizations. Our vast and fertile plains, beautiful river basins, large steppes, immense deserts, mighty rivers and oceans, and lofty mountains have nourished and enriched diverse and colorful civilizations across Asia.
In building our civilizations over the course of several millennia, we the people of Asia have made splendid achievements. I think of literary classics such as
The Book of Songs, The Analects of Confucius, The Talmud, One Thousand and One Nights, The Rigveda and Genji Monogatari;
of inventions such as the cuneiform script, maps, glass, Arabic numerals, paper making and printing techniques; and of majestic structures like the Great Wall, the Great Mosque of Mecca, Taj Mahal and Angkor Wat. They are all invaluable assets of human civilization. Through interactions on this continent, Asian civilizations have enriched each other and written an epic of development.
Our forefathers in Asia have long engaged in inter-civilizational exchanges and mutual learning. The ancient trade routes, notably the Silk Road, the Tea Road and the Spice Road, brought silk, tea, porcelain, spices, paintings and sculpture to all corners of Asia, and witnessed inter-civilizational dialogue in the form of trade and cultural interflow. Today, the Belt and Road Initiative, together with the Two Corridors and One Belt, the Eurasian Economic Union and other initiatives, have greatly expanded inter-civilizational exchanges and mutual learning. Cooperation among nations in science, technology, education, culture, health and people-to-people exchanges are thriving like never before. Thanks to exchanges and mutual learning among themselves and with other civilizations in the world, Asian civilizations have grown from strength to strength.
The great Asian civilizations have a special place in the annals of world civilizations, and they have added to the diversity of human civilizations. Think of what Asia stands to offer in terms of religion, philosophy, ethic code, law, literature, painting, drama, music, and even the building of towns and villages. They speak volumes for Asia's proud achievements: extensive systems of social customs, immortal classics that have endured for millennia, the fine pool of exquisite art, and diverse institutions, among others. All these offer rich choices for civilizations the world over to draw on.
As we review our past and look beyond Asia, we should have greater confidence in our civilizations. We may build on the rich heritage of our forefathers, stay engaged with other civilizations and increase mutual learning. By doing so, we will add new glory to Asian civilizations.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
We Asian countries are closely connected and share a natural bond of affinity. We went through similar historical trials and hold the same dream for the future. Going forward, we need to see where the world is going, ride on the trend of the times and turn our people's longing for a better life into reality.
- We Asian people hope to see peace and stability across Asia.
Upholding peace is the responsibility of every country. When peace is interrupted by conflict or war, economic growth, decent lives, social stability and people-to-people exchanges will all be out of the question. We the people of Asian countries wish to live and work in content and security free from fear. We hope that all countries will respect and trust each other, live in harmony, and interact with each other in a manner that transcends national boundaries, time and space, as well as the difference between civilizations. We should work together and jointly safeguard peace, something that is even more precious than gold.
- We Asian people hope to see common prosperity in Asia.
Economic growth sustains a civilization, and prosperity underpins the progress of a nation. In some parts of Asia, people, women and children in particular, are still suffering from poverty, hunger and disease. This must change. We Asian people long for decent lives free of poverty. We hope that countries will work together to promote economic globalization and make it more open, inclusive, balanced and beneficial to all. Doing so will enable us to eradicate poverty and backwardness that still plague people in some countries. It will make life carefree for our children and bring happiness to all families.
- We Asian people hope to see an open and better-connected Asia.
Asia's rapid development over the past decades shows that it is important to open one's door to the outside world and ride on the trend of global economic development. If countries choose to close their doors and hide behind them, human civilizations would be cut off from each other and lose all vitality. We Asian people hope that all countries will reject self-exclusion, embrace integration, uphold openness and promote policy, infrastructure, trade, financial and people-to-people connectivity. This way, we can jointly foster a community with a shared future for both us Asians and all humanity.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
Diversity spurs interaction among civilizations, which in turn promotes mutual learning and their further development. We need to promote exchanges and mutual learning among countries, nations and cultures around the world, and strengthen popular support for jointly building a community with a shared future for both Asia and humanity as a whole. To that end, I believe it is imperative that we act in the following ways:
First, we need to respect each other and treat each other as equals.
All civilizations are rooted in their unique cultural environment. Each embodies the wisdom and vision of a country or nation, and each is valuable for being uniquely its own. Civilizations only vary from each other, just as human beings are different only in terms of skin color and the language used. No civilization is superior over others. The thought that one's own race and civilization are superior and the inclination to remold or replace other civilizations are just stupid. To act them out will only bring catastrophic consequences. If human civilizations are reduced to only one single color or one single model, the world would become a stereotype and too dull a place to live in. What we need is to respect each other as equals and say no to hubris and prejudice. We need to deepen understanding of the difference between one's own civilization and others', and work to promote interaction, dialogue and harmony among civilizations.
In the many places I have visited around the world, what fascinates me the most is civilizations in their rich diversity. I cannot but think of the Central Asian city of Samarkand, the Luxor Temple in Egypt, Sentosa in Singapore, Wat Phra Kaew in Bangkok, and the Acropolis in Athens, to mention just a few. China is ready to work with other countries to protect Asian cultural heritage and better preserve and sustain our civilizations.
Second, we need to uphold the beauty of each civilization and the diversity of civilizations in the world.
Each civilization is the crystallization of human creation, and each is beautiful in its own way. The aspiration for all that is beautiful is a common pursuit of humanity that nothing can hold back. Civilizations don't have to clash with each other; what is needed are eyes to see the beauty in all civilizations. We should keep our own civilizations dynamic and create conditions for other civilizations to flourish. Together we can make the garden of world civilizations colorful and vibrant.
The beauty of a civilization finds concrete expression in the classic works of philosophy and social sciences and works of literature, music, film and TV drama. Now, a large number of outstanding cultural works from other countries are brought into China, and a lot of fine Chinese cultural products are introduced to other countries. China is happy to launch initiatives with relevant countries to translate Asian classics both from and into Chinese and promote film and TV exchanges and cooperation in Asia. This will help people in Asia better understand and appreciate each other's cultures and build a platform of exchange and mutual learning for the best of Asian civilizations to spread and be known to more in the world.
Third, we need to stay open and inclusive and draw on each other's strengths.
All living organisms in the human body must renew themselves through metabolism; otherwise, life would come to an end. The same is true for civilizations. Long-term self-isolation will cause a civilization to decline, while exchanges and mutual learning will sustain its development. A civilization can flourish only through exchanges and mutual learning with other civilizations. Such exchanges and mutual learning should be reciprocal, equal-footed, diversified and multi-dimensional; they should not be coercive, imposed, one-dimensional or one-way. We need to be broad-minded and strive to remove all barriers to cultural exchanges. We need to be inclusive and always seek nourishment from other civilizations to promote the common development of Asian civilizations through exchanges and mutual learning.
People are the best bridge for exchanges and mutual learning among civilizations. Closer people-to-people exchanges and mutual learning, for that matter, is a sure way to eliminate estrangement and misunderstanding and promote mutual understanding among nations. Over the years, China has, in collaboration with other countries, established many platforms and channels for cooperation in education, culture, sports, health and other fields. China will work with other countries to step up exchanges among the youth, non-governmental organizations, subnational entities and media organizations, create a network of exchanges and cooperation between think tanks, explore new models of cooperation, and deliver more solid outcomes in diverse forms. Such efforts will boost exchanges and mutual learning among civilizations.
Fourth, we need to advance with the times and explore new ground in development.
For a civilization to endure, efforts must be made to keep it alive and build on its heritage from one generation to the next. More importantly, a civilization needs to adapt itself to the changing times and break new ground. The history of world civilizations tells us that every civilization needs to advance with the times and take in the best of its age in order to develop itself. We need to come up with new ideas to add impetus and inspiration to the development of our civilizations. With these efforts, we will deliver achievements for our civilizations to transcend time and space and have a lasting appeal.
To spur people's innovation and creativity, the best way is to come into contact with different civilizations, see the strengths of others and draw upon them. Last year, Chinese tourists made over 160 million overseas trips and more than 140 million foreign tourists visited China. These visits played an important role in promoting exchanges and mutual learning between China and the rest of the world. In this connection, China will work with other countries to implement a plan to promote tourism in Asia. This will further boost economic development in Asia and deepen friendship among the Asian people.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
Being an inseparable part of Asian civilizations, Chinese civilization has, since its early days, evolved and grown by drawing on its past achievement, exploring new ground and adapting to changes. It represents the profound pursuit of the Chinese nation and provides a rich source of strength for its lasting development. Chinese inventions such as paper making, gunpowder, printing and the compass as well as China's astronomical knowledge, calendar system, philosophy and the people-centered doctrine have all had a global impact and propelled the development of human civilizations.
Chinese civilization, as an inclusive and integrated whole, has become what it is today through constant interactions with other civilizations. It has been enriched by the introduction of Buddhism and the confluence of Islam and Confucianism in the old days, and by the introduction of Western learning, the launch of the New Culture Movement and the introduction of Marxism and socialism in modern times. All-round opening-up of the country, starting with the reform and opening-up program, has added to its vitality today. For Chinese civilization, amity and good neighborliness is the principle guiding our interactions with other countries; and to deliver prosperity and security to the people is the overarching goal, to keep pace with the times through reform and innovation the abiding commitment, and to achieve harmony between man and nature the underlying philosophy.
China today is more than the country itself; it is very much a part of Asia and the world. In the time to come, China will open its arms wider to embrace the world and contribute the dynamic achievements of Chinese civilization to a better world in the future.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
The Conference on Dialogue of Asian Civilizations has a wide-ranging agenda, and I look forward to your keen perspectives and insights. By putting our heads together, we will create an even better tomorrow for civilizations in Asia and beyond!
To conclude, I wish this conference every success!
Thank you."
"Remarks by H.E. Xi Jinping
President of the People's Republic of China
At the Opening Ceremony of
The International Horticultural Exhibition 2019 Beijing China
Beijing, 28 April 2019
Your Excellencies Heads of State and Government and Your Spouses,
Your Excellency Secretary General of the Bureau International des Expositions,
Your Excellency President of the International Association of Horticultural Producers,
Your Excellencies Diplomatic Envoys and Representatives of International Organizations,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
"Spring scenery greets the eye; sweet blooms perfume the air." Such is the delight of April in Beijing, full of exuberance and vitality, as depicted by an ancient Chinese poem. By the beautiful Guishui River and at the foot of the majestic Great Wall, we are very glad to welcome all the distinguished guests to the opening of the International Horticultural Exhibition 2019 Beijing China.
On behalf of the Chinese government and people and in my own name, I wish to extend a warm welcome to all the guests coming to the Expo and sincere appreciation to all the friends for their support and participation.
The Expo, as indicated by its theme "Live Green, Live Better", aims to promote respect for nature and a better life in harmony with nature. It is our hope that this Expo Park, designed to blend into its splendid surrounding landscape, will show the world the vision of green development.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
This beautiful land of China, home to the Chinese nation and its splendid 5,000-year civilization, has nurtured the lofty idea of harmony between man and nature.
Ecological conservation has become part of China's overall plan for national development. Building a beautiful China is an inspiring goal for the Chinese people. As China steps up its conservation efforts, the world will see a China with more blue skies, lush mountains and lucid waters.
The history of civilizations shows that the rise or fall of a civilization is closely tied to its relationship with nature. Industrialization, while generating unprecedented material wealth, has incurred serious damage to Mother Nature. Development without thought to the future is not sustainable. The way forward should be green development that focuses on harmony with nature and eco-friendly progress.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
Looking up at night, we are awed by the many stars in the sky. Yet, planet Earth is the only home for mankind. We must protect this planet like our own eyes, and cherish nature the way we cherish life. We must preserve what gives our planet life and embrace green development.
- We need to advocate harmony between man and nature.
Lush mountains, green fields, singing birds and blossoming flowers offer more than beauty to the eye. They are the basis for future development. Nature will punish those who exploit and plunder it brutally, and reward those who use and protect it carefully. We must maintain the overall balance of the Earth's eco-system, so that our children and children's children will not only have material wealth but also enjoy starry skies, green mountains and sweet flowers.
- We need to pursue prosperity through green development.
Green is the color of nature. I have always said that green mountains and lucid waters are indeed mountains of gold and silver, and that environmental improvement means greater productivity. A sound environment promises great economic potential, generates good returns, and contributes to economic and social sustainability.
- We need to follow a philosophy that cares for nature.
Well-measured use of natural resources is the key to ecological conservation. We need to promote a simpler, greener and low-carbon lifestyle, oppose excessiveness and foster a culture of living green and living healthy. We need to raise people's awareness, develop a conservation system in which everyone plays a part, and mainstream ecological conservation into every aspect of social life. We need to advocate the value of green development that reveres and cares for nature so that blue skies, green fields and clear waters will be a vision cherished by all.
- We need to adopt a scientific approach to ecological conservation.
To create an eco-system where all elements coexist in harmony, we need to follow the laws of nature, base our efforts on scientific planning, adopt a holistic approach to conservation, and factor in local conditions. Human wisdom is essential to sustaining the dynamism of Earth, our common homeland. Ecological conservation may be a long and arduous effort. We must press ahead with a sense of urgency and perseverance to achieve our goals.
- We need to join hands to meet common challenges.
A beautiful homeland is the shared aspiration of mankind. In the face of environmental challenges, all countries are in a community with destinies linked, and no country can stay immune. Only together can we effectively address climate change, marine pollution, biological conservation and other global environmental issues and achieve the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Only concerted efforts can drive home the idea of green development and bring about steady progress in the ecological conservation of the globe.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
Many of you attended the Second Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation, which drew to a successful conclusion yesterday. It was agreed at the Forum that we will pursue open and green development in Belt and Road cooperation. China is ready to work with all other countries to build a better homeland and a community with a shared future for mankind.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
Every generation has its own mission. Our efforts to conserve the eco-system will benefit not only this generation, but many more to come. Let us act now, start with ourselves, and make sure that the baton of conservation will be passed on.
I now declare open the International Horticultural Exhibition 2019 Beijing China!"
"Opening Remarks by H.E. Xi Jinping
President of the People's Republic of China
At the Leaders' Roundtable of
The Second Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation
Beijing, 27 April 2019
Your Excellencies Heads of State and Government,
Heads of International Organizations,
I now declare that the Leaders' Roundtable of the Second Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation (BRF) opens!
Back in May 2017, many of us around the table attended the Leaders' Roundtable in the same venue. Together we issued a joint communiqué, identified the objectives, principles and measures for Belt and Road cooperation, and achieved concrete deliverables covering many areas.
In the past two years, under the principle of extensive consultation, joint contribution and shared benefits, we have made all-round progress in policy, infrastructure, trade, financial and people-to-people connectivity, lending new impetus to global growth and opening new space for global development.
By hosting the second BRF, we wish to work with all parties to advance results-oriented implementation of projects, just like an architect refining the blueprint, and promote more solid progress in our cooperation to deliver greater benefits to our people.
First, we hope to work with all parties to further substantiate the guiding principles for high-quality development of Belt and Road cooperation.
It is imperative that we fully implement the principle of extensive consultation, joint contribution and shared benefits to see that all have their voices heard, all reach their full potential and all stand to benefit. The BRI must be open, green and clean, and follows a high-standard, people-centered and sustainable approach. We should make our support for the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development an integral part of Belt and Road cooperation, align our cooperation with universally accepted rules, standards and best practices, and pursue economic growth, social progress and environmental protection in a balanced way. The BRI should be beneficial to all and deliver common development.
Second, we hope to work with all parties to identify cooperation priorities and strengthen all-round connectivity.
This requires that we continue to focus on infrastructure connectivity. We also need to deepen cooperation in frontier areas such as smart manufacturing and digital economy to achieve innovation-driven development. We must open our markets wider and enhance trade and investment facilitation for unimpeded flows of goods. We need to build diversified financing systems and multi-tiered capital markets. We should promote extensive people-to-people exchanges in various forms and undertake more cooperation projects that help improve people's lives. All in all, the goal is to achieve all-round connectivity that produces multiplying effects in infrastructure development, industrial clustering, economic growth and people's well-being.
Third, we hope to work with all parties to bolster cooperation mechanisms and foster partnerships on connectivity.
We need to work together to keep the world economy open and reject protectionism. We must make continued efforts to enhance the complementarity and synergy between the Belt and Road cooperation and the development strategies and agenda at national, regional and international levels. Through bilateral, tripartite and multilateral cooperation, we need to encourage the full participation of more countries and companies, thus expanding the pie of common interests. In the spirit of multilateralism, we need to earnestly advance the institution building for Belt and Road cooperation to provide a strong underpinning for our practical cooperation in various fields.
I am confident that with all of us working together, we can build more consensus and achieve more outcomes at today's roundtable, and that our joint efforts to promote Belt and Road cooperation will bring greater benefits to our peoples and contribute more to the building of a community with a shared future for mankind.
Thank you."
"Beijing, 27 April 2019
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends from the Media,
Good afternoon!
Welcome to the press conference of the Second Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation (BRF). Since it was put forth over five years ago, the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) has caught much media attention. All of you have been following and covering the second BRF since its opening, recording memorable moments, spreading key messages, and reporting on the fruitful outcomes of Belt and Road cooperation. On behalf of the Chinese government and delegates from all participating countries, I wish to express our appreciation to all of you for your support and hard work!
This year's BRF, the second China has hosted, is larger and more substantive than the first one, attracting more countries and producing more results. This year, delegates and business representatives from over 150 countries have participated in the opening ceremony, the high-level meeting, 12 thematic forums and a CEO conference. The Leaders' Roundtable held today was attended by leaders from 38 countries as well as the United Nations (UN) and the International Monetary Fund.
The theme of this year's Forum is "Belt and Road Cooperation: Shaping a Brighter Shared Future". Earlier today, leaders of participating countries and international organizations held in-depth discussions on "Boosting Connectivity to Explore New Sources of Growth", "Strengthening Policy Synergy and Building Closer Partnerships" and "Promoting Green and Sustainable Development to Implement UN 2030 Agenda". We reached extensive consensus on promoting high-quality Belt and Road cooperation with refined principles, clear priorities and stronger mechanisms. The leaders' common views are reflected in the Joint Communiqué adopted by consensus at the Leaders' Roundtable and will guide our efforts as we advance Belt and Road cooperation in years to come.
- We spoke positively of the progress and value of Belt and Road cooperation.
We shared the view that Belt and Road cooperation has created opportunities for common prosperity. Since the BRI was proposed over five years ago, and especially after the first BRF, countries concerned have made concerted efforts to expand policy communication, upgrade infrastructure connectivity, advance economic, trade and investment cooperation, enhance financial cooperation, and facilitate people-to-people exchange. The "early harvests" of Belt and Road cooperation achieved so far have opened up greater space for national and global economic growth, provided a platform for enhancing international cooperation, and made a fresh contribution to building a community with a shared future for mankind.
- We enriched the concept of Belt and Road cooperation and jointly reaffirmed our commitment to its high-quality development.
Guided by the principle of extensive consultation, joint contribution and shared benefits, the parties have conducted consultation as equals, jointly shouldered responsibilities and enjoyed the benefits together. All interested countries are welcome to join us. We are committed to supporting open, clean and green development and rejecting protectionism, and are working hard to develop a clean and green Silk Road for the new era. We have agreed to act on the principles of high standard, people-centered and sustainable development, align our cooperation with universally accepted international rules and standards, follow the philosophy of people-centered development, and pursue coordinated progress in economic, social and environmental dimensions. These common views have pointed the way for Belt and Road cooperation toward our common goal, that is, to realize more effective connectivity between countries, promote stronger economic growth and closer international cooperation, and deliver better lives to our peoples.
- We set clear priorities for Belt and Road cooperation and decided to strengthen all-round and multi-tiered cooperation.
We will continue to promote land, sea, air and cyber connectivity and develop high-quality, sustainable, resilient, affordable, inclusive and accessible infrastructure. We will advance the development of economic corridors and economic and trade cooperation zones, enhance the alignment between markets, regulations and standards, and encourage the development of digital infrastructure. In all Belt and Road cooperation projects, the government will provide guidance, enterprises will act as the main players and market principles will apply. This will make the projects more sustainable and create a fair and non-discriminatory environment for foreign investors. We will continue to diversify financing channels, reduce financing costs, and welcome the participation of multilateral and foreign financial institutions in investment and financing cooperation. We have also agreed to conduct extensive and multi-faceted people-to-people and cultural exchanges, and launch more cooperation projects for the benefit of our peoples. We all want to make Belt and Road cooperation development-oriented, and all support global development, particularly the implementation of the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, and will strive for clean, low-carbon and sustainable development. It is also necessary to help developing countries break bottlenecks to development and better partake in and benefit from global value, industrial and supply chains.
- We all supported the idea of building a global partnership on connectivity and agreed to strengthen mechanisms for Belt and Road cooperation.
To this end, we will find greater complementarity between the economic development initiatives and plans of interested countries and international organizations, step up bilateral cooperation and cooperation in third markets, and continue to develop the China-Europe Railway Express, the New International Land-Sea Trade Corridor and other international transportation and trade links, in order to help more countries improve connectivity. We reviewed the report of the BRF Advisory Council, and look forward to more intellectual support from the Advisory Council for Belt and Road cooperation and the BRF. We will uphold multilateralism, and work to foster a framework led by the BRF and underpinned by multilateral and bilateral cooperation in various areas. The goal is to see that our cooperation is guided by an overall vision, followed up by actions and supported by concrete institutions. The leaders share the view that the BRF is an important platform for multilateral cooperation and support holding the Forum on a regular basis.
- We all supported more results-oriented cooperation and more concrete outcomes.
In the run-up to and during the course of this Forum, the parties reached 283 deliverables, including inter-governmental cooperation agreements, practical cooperation projects, the initiation of multilateral dialogue and cooperation platforms in specific areas, and the release of a Belt and Road cooperation progress report as well as the report of the BRF Advisory Council. As the host of the Forum, China will release a deliverables list. A great many business representatives participated in the CEO conference and signed project cooperation agreements worth over US$64 billion. All of this shows that Belt and Road cooperation is in sync with the times, widely supported, people-centered and beneficial to all.
Yesterday, I announced a series of major reform and opening-up steps that China will take. They are seen by all sides as good news for both China and the world at large and important opportunities for Belt and Road cooperation and development of the world economy.
This year's Forum sends a clear message: more and more friends and partners will join in Belt and Road cooperation, and the cooperation will enjoy higher quality and brighter prospects. I have noted on many occasions that while the BRI was launched by China, its opportunities and outcomes are shared by the world. Belt and Road cooperation is a long-term endeavor and a common cause of all its cooperation partners. China will work with all parties to implement the consensus reached at this year's Forum, advance results-oriented implementation of projects in the spirit of an architect refining the blueprint, ensure substantive, steady, sustained and high-quality development and usher in a brighter future of Belt and Road cooperation. I hope our friends from the media will continue to actively support Belt and Road cooperation.
Thank you."
"Beijing, 26 April 2019
Your Excellencies Heads of State and Government,
Your Excellencies High-level Representatives,
Your Excellencies Heads of International Organizations,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
Good morning! As a line of a classical Chinese poem goes, "Spring and autumn are lovely seasons in which friends get together to climb up mountains and write poems." On this beautiful spring day, it gives me great pleasure to have you with us here at the Second Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation (BRF). On behalf of the Chinese government and people and in my own name, I extend a very warm welcome to you all!
Two years ago, it was here that we met for the First Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation, where we drew a blueprint of cooperation to enhance policy, infrastructure, trade, financial and people-to-people connectivity. Today, we are once again meeting here with you, friends from across the world. I look forward to scaling new heights with you and enhancing our partnership. Together, we will create an even brighter future for Belt and Road cooperation.
Dear Colleagues and Friends,
The joint pursuit of the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) aims to enhance connectivity and practical cooperation. It is about jointly meeting various challenges and risks confronting mankind and delivering win-win outcomes and common development. Thanks to the joint efforts of all of us involved in this initiative, a general connectivity framework consisting of six corridors, six connectivity routes and multiple countries and ports has been put in place. A large number of cooperation projects have been launched, and the decisions of the first BRF have been smoothly implemented. More than 150 countries and international organizations have signed agreements on Belt and Road cooperation with China. The complementarity between the BRI and the development plans or cooperation initiatives of international and regional organizations such as the United Nations, the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, the African Union, the European Union, the Eurasian Economic Union and between the BRI and the development strategies of the participating countries has been enhanced. From the Eurasian continent to Africa, the Americas and Oceania, Belt and Road cooperation has opened up new space for global economic growth, produced new platforms for international trade and investment and offered new ways for improving global economic governance. Indeed, this initiative has helped improve people's lives in countries involved and created more opportunities for common prosperity. What we have achieved amply demonstrates that Belt and Road cooperation has both generated new opportunities for the development of all participating countries and opened up new horizon for China's development and opening-up.
An ancient Chinese philosopher observed that "plants with strong roots grow well, and efforts with the right focus will ensure success." The Belt and Road cooperation embraces the historical trend of economic globalization, responds to the call for improving the global governance system and meets people's longing for a better life. Going ahead, we should focus on priorities and project execution, move forward with results-oriented implementation, just like an architect refining the blueprint, and jointly promote high-quality Belt and Road cooperation.
-
We need to be guided by the principle of extensive consultation, joint contribution and shared benefits.
We need to act in the spirit of multilateralism, pursue cooperation through consultation and keep all participants motivated. We may, by engaging in bilateral, trilateral and multilateral cooperation, fully tap into the strengths of all participants. Just as a Chinese proverb says, "A tower is built when soil on earth accumulates, and a river is formed when streams come together."
-
We need to pursue open, green and clean cooperation.
The Belt and Road is not an exclusive club; it aims to promote green development. We may launch green infrastructure projects, make green investment and provide green financing to protect the Earth which we all call home. In pursuing Belt and Road cooperation, everything should be done in a transparent way, and we should have zero tolerance for corruption. The Beijing Initiative for Clean Silk Road has been launched, which represents our strong commitment to transparency and clean governance in pursuing Belt and Road cooperation.
-
We need to pursue high standard cooperation to improve people's lives and promote sustainable development.
We will adopt widely accepted rules and standards and encourage participating companies to follow general international rules and standards in project development, operation, procurement and tendering and bidding. The laws and regulations of participating countries should also be respected. We need to take a people-centered approach, give priority to poverty alleviation and job creation to see that the joint pursuit of Belt and Road cooperation will deliver true benefits to the people of participating countries and contribute to their social and economic development. We also need to ensure the commercial and fiscal sustainability of all projects so that they will achieve the intended goals as planned.
Dear Colleagues and Friends,
Connectivity is vital to advancing Belt and Road cooperation. We need to promote a global partnership of connectivity to achieve common development and prosperity. I am confident that as we work closely together, we will transcend geographical distance and embark on a path of win-win cooperation.
Infrastructure is the bedrock of connectivity, while the lack of infrastructure has held up the development of many countries. High-quality, sustainable, resilient, affordable, inclusive and accessible infrastructure projects can help countries fully leverage their resource endowment, better integrate into the global supply, industrial and value chains, and realize inter-connected development. To this end, China will continue to work with other parties to build a connectivity network centering on economic corridors such as the New Eurasian Land Bridge, supplemented by major transportation routes like the China-Europe Railway Express and the New International Land-Sea Trade Corridor and information expressway, and reinforced by major railway, port and pipeline projects. We will continue to make good use of the Belt and Road Special Lending Scheme, the Silk Road Fund, and various special investment funds, develop Silk Road theme bonds, and support the Multilateral Cooperation Center for Development Finance in its operation. We welcome the participation of multilateral and national financial institutions in BRI investment and financing and encourage third-market cooperation. With the involvement of multiple stakeholders, we can surely deliver benefits to all.
The flow of goods, capital, technology and people will power economic growth and create broad space for it. As a Chinese saying goes, "The ceaseless inflow of rivers makes the ocean deep." However, were such inflow to be cut, the ocean, however big, would eventually dry up. We need to promote trade and investment liberalization and facilitation, say no to protectionism, and make economic globalization more open, inclusive, balanced and beneficial to all. To this end, we will enter into negotiation with more countries to conclude high-standard free trade agreements, and strengthen cooperation in customs, taxation and audit oversight by setting up the Belt and Road Initiative Tax Administration Cooperation Mechanism and accelerating international collaboration on the mutual recognition of Authorized Economic Operators. We have also formulated the
Guiding Principles on Financing the Development of the Belt and Road
and published the
Debt Sustainability Framework for Participating Countries of the Belt and Road Initiative
to provide guidance for BRI financing cooperation. In addition, the Second China International Import Expo will be held this year to build an even bigger platform for other parties to access the Chinese market.
Innovation boosts productivity; it makes companies competitive and countries strong. We need to keep up with the trend of the Fourth Industrial Revolution, jointly seize opportunities created by digital, networked and smart development, explore new technologies and new forms and models of business, foster new growth drivers and explore new development pathways, and build the digital Silk Road and the Silk Road of innovation. China will continue to carry out the Belt and Road Science, Technology and Innovation Cooperation Action Plan, and will work with our partners to pursue four major initiatives, namely the Science and Technology People-to-People Exchange Initiative, the Joint Laboratory Initiative, the Science Park Cooperation Initiative, and the Technology Transfer Initiative. We will actively implement the Belt and Road Initiative Talents Exchange Program, and will, in the coming five years, offer 5,000 opportunities for exchange, training and cooperative research for talents from China and other BRI participating countries. We will also support companies of various countries in jointly advancing ICT infrastructure building to upgrade cyber connectivity.
Imbalance in development is the greatest imbalance confronting today's world. In the joint pursuit of the BRI, we must always take a development-oriented approach and see that the vision of sustainable development underpins project selection, implementation and management. We need to strengthen international development cooperation so as to create more opportunities for developing countries, help them eradicate poverty and achieve sustainable development. In this connection, China and its partners have set up the Belt and Road Sustainable Cities Alliance and the BRI International Green Development Coalition, formulated the
Green Investment Principles for the Belt and Road Development
, and launched the Declaration on Accelerating the Sustainable Development Goals for Children through Shared Development. We have set up the BRI Environmental Big Data Platform. We will continue to implement the Green Silk Road Envoys Program and work with relevant countries to jointly implement the Belt and Road South-South Cooperation Initiative on Climate Change. We will also deepen cooperation in agriculture, health, disaster mitigation and water resources; and we will enhance development cooperation with the United Nations to narrow the gap in development.
We need to build bridges for exchanges and mutual learning among different cultures, deepen cooperation in education, science, culture, sports, tourism, health and archaeology, strengthen exchanges between parliaments, political parties and non-governmental organizations and exchanges between women, young people and people with disabilities in order to facilitate multi-faceted people-to-people exchanges. To this end, we will, in the coming five years, invite 10,000 representatives of political parties, think tanks and non-governmental organizations from Belt and Road participating countries to visit China. We will encourage and support extensive cooperation on livelihood projects among social organizations of participating countries, conduct a number of environmental protection and anti-corruption training courses and deepen human resources development cooperation in various areas. We will continue to run the Chinese government scholarship Silk Road Program, host the International Youth Forum on Creativity and Heritage along the Silk Roads and the "Chinese Bridge" summer camps. We will also put in place new mechanisms such as the Belt and Road Studies Network and the Belt and Road News Alliance to draw inspiration and pool our strength for greater synergy.
Dear Colleagues and Friends,
This year marks the 70th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China. Seven decades ago, through the arduous struggle carried out by several generations of Chinese people and under the leadership of the Communist Party of China, New China was founded. We Chinese have since stood up and held our future in our own hands.
Over the past seven decades, we in China have, based on its realities, constantly explored the way forward through practices, and have succeeded in following the path of socialism with Chinese characteristics. Today, China has reached a new historical starting point. However, we are keenly aware that with all we have achieved, there are still many mountains to scale and many shoals to navigate. We will continue to advance along the path of socialism with Chinese characteristics, deepen sweeping reforms, pursue quality development, and expand opening-up. We remain committed to peaceful development and will endeavor to build a community with a shared future for mankind.
Going forward, China will take a series of major reform and opening-up measures and make stronger institutional and structural moves to boost higher quality opening-up.
First, we will expand market access for foreign investment in more areas.
Fair competition boosts business performance and creates prosperity. China has already adopted a management model based on pre-establishment national treatment and negative list, and will continue to significantly shorten the negative list. We will work for the all-round opening-up of modern services, manufacturing and agriculture, and will allow the operation of foreign-controlled or wholly foreign-owned businesses in more sectors. We will plan new pilot free trade zones and explore at a faster pace the opening of a free trade port. We will accelerate the adoption of supporting regulations to ensure full implementation of the Foreign Investment Law. We will promote supply-side structural reform through fair competition and open cooperation, and will phase out backward and excessive production capacity in an effective way to improve the quality and efficiency of supply.
Second, we will intensify efforts to enhance international cooperation in intellectual property protection.
Without innovation, there will be no progress. Full intellectual property protection will not only ensure the lawful rights and interests of Chinese and foreign companies; it is also crucial to promoting China's innovation-driven and quality development. China will spare no effort to foster a business environment that respects the value of knowledge. We will fully improve the legal framework for protecting intellectual property, step up law enforcement, enhance protection of the lawful rights and interests of foreign intellectual property owners, stop forced technology transfer, improve protection of trade secrets, and crack down hard on violations of intellectual property in accordance with law. China will strengthen cooperation with other countries in intellectual property protection, create an enabling environment for innovation and promote technological exchanges and cooperation with other countries on the basis of market principles and the rule of law.
Third, we will increase the import of goods and services on an even larger scale.
China is both a global factory and a global market. With the world's largest and fastest growing middle-income population, China has a vast potential for increasing consumption. To meet our people's ever-growing material and cultural needs and give our consumers more choices and benefits, we will further lower tariffs and remove various non-tariff barriers. We will steadily open China's market wider to quality products from across the world. China does not seek trade surplus; we want to import more competitive quality agricultural products, manufactured goods and services to promote balanced trade.
Fourth, we will more effectively engage in international macro-economic policy coordination.
A globalized economy calls for global governance. China will strengthen macro policy coordination with other major economies to generate a positive spillover and jointly contribute to robust, sustainable, balanced and inclusive global growth. China will not resort to the beggar-thy-neighbor practice of RMB devaluation. On the contrary, we will continue to improve the exchange rate regime, see that the market plays a decisive role in resource allocation and keep the RMB exchange rate basically stable at an adaptive and equilibrium level. These steps will help ensure the steady growth of the global economy. Rules and credibility underpin the effective functioning of the international governance system; they are the prerequisite for growing international economic and trade relations. China is an active supporter and participant of WTO reform and will work with others to develop international economic and trade rules of higher standards.
Fifth, we will work harder to ensure the implementation of opening-up related policies.
We Chinese have a saying that honoring a promise carries the weight of gold. We are committed to implementing multilateral and bilateral economic and trade agreements reached with other countries. We will strengthen the building of a government based on the rule of law and good faith. A binding mechanism for honoring international agreements will be put in place. Laws and regulations will be revised and improved in keeping with the need to expand opening-up. We will see that governments at all levels operate in a well-regulated way when it comes to issuing administrative licenses and conducting market oversight. We will overhaul and abolish unjustified regulations, subsidies and practices that impede fair competition and distort the market. We will treat all enterprises and business entities equally, and foster an enabling business environment based on market operation and governed by law.
These measures to expand opening-up are a choice China has made by itself to advance its reform and development. It will promote high-quality economic development, meet the people's desire for a better life, and contribute to world peace, stability and development. We hope that other countries will also create an enabling environment of investment, treat Chinese enterprises, students and scholars as equals, and provide a fair and friendly environment for them to engage in international exchanges and cooperation. We are convinced that a more open China will further integrate itself into the world and deliver greater progress and prosperity for both China and the world at large.
Dear Colleagues and Friends,
Let us join hands to sow the seeds of cooperation, harvest the fruits of development, bring greater happiness to our people and make our world a better place for all!
In conclusion, I wish the Second Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation a full success!
Thank you!"
"Beijing, 26 April 2019
Your Excellencies Heads of State and Government,
Your Excellencies High-level Representatives,
Your Excellencies Heads of International Organizations,
Distinguished Guests,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
Good evening. In the prime of spring, a season of hope, we have come together for the second Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation. On behalf of the Chinese government and people, on behalf of my wife as well as in my own name, I wish to extend a warm welcome to all of our distinguished guests.
Tonight, the Great Hall of the People is graced by the presence of an august gathering of world leaders. While I rejoice in seeing so many friends, old and new, I would also like to pay tribute to all the globetrotters who have to travel whenever duty calls, for the sake of our people and prosperity and stability in the world. Frequent overseas trips may be exhausting, but we are repaid with a broader network of friends. Coming from all corners of the world to meet in Beijing, we have all the more reason to cherish the time we spend together.
- Our gathering today helps revive the beautiful memories of our past interactions.
Despite our geographical distance, we have become like-minded partners, thanks to our common pursuit of peace and development and shared aspiration for a better life for our people. From Beijing to Moscow, from Jakarta to Nur-Sultan, from Cairo to Santiago, our heart-to-heart discussions still ring in our ears, as if they happened only yesterday. The many moments of our sincere interactions have been recorded by history. No matter how the international situation evolves, our true friendship will endure and win-win cooperation will prevail.
- Our gathering today gives us much food for thought.
The charm of human civilization lies in its variety; the secret of human progress, in mutual learning. For millennia, the Silk Road had witnessed how countries achieved development and prosperity through commerce and enriched their cultures through exchanges. Facing the myriad challenges of today, we can draw wisdom from the history of the Silk Road, find strength in win-win cooperation in the present day and build partnerships across the globe to jointly usher in a brighter future where development is shared by all.
- Our gathering today reminds us of the weight of responsibility on our shoulders.
The world is not a static place and the wheels of history keep rolling on. We are on the cusp of a new industrial revolution, which brings with it both opportunities and challenges. Like sailing upstream, we will be pushed back if we don't move forward. Yet for world leaders, going backward is not an option. We can only forge ahead, rain or shine, in order to live up to the trust of our people and deliver on the promise for a better life. At a time of major changes rarely seen in a century, I hope we will all fulfill our mission and prove worthy of our time.
Nothing can separate people who share the same vision. In 2013, I put forth the initiative to jointly build a Silk Road Economic Belt and a 21st Century Maritime Silk Road. Six years on, with the concerted efforts of many parties, we have developed a plan for advancing Belt and Road cooperation and reaped many benefits. As we did this, people from different countries have got to know each other better and forged close partnerships in cooperation. Since Belt and Road cooperation is still at an early stage, some difficulties and setbacks are inevitable. But either in good times or bad, either on a smooth road or a thorny path, we will uphold the spirit of partnership, keep in mind what brought us together, and march forward without hesitation. For we all believe that our people deserve a better world, and Belt and Road cooperation will make the world a better place.
Now please join me in a toast:
To the happiness of people of all our countries;
To peace, stability and prosperity of the world;
To the success of the second Belt and Road Forum; and
To the health of all of the heads of state and government, all distinguished guests and your families.
Cheers!"
"On 19 September 2018, following his address at the Opening Ceremony of the Annual Meeting of the New Champions 2018 held in Tianjin, Premier Li Keqiang of the State Council took a question from Executive Chairman of the World Economic Forum Klaus Schwab. On 20 September, Premier Li sat down for a dialogue with representatives of international business leaders attending the Annual Meeting. Below is a transcript of these interactions:
Professor Schwab: Premier Li Keqiang, thank you for this very comprehensive presentation of your government’s policy. I also feel there are many messages in your speech which are certainly reassuring for foreign and Chinese leaders present here. I want to thank you for taking the time to develop in such a detailed way your policies and your intentions. You developed a concept on how China will keep up reform and opening-up. Now many of the business leaders are concerned about the credit situation and the financial situation, the financial risk of the country, particularly related to the issue of deleveraging. What is your response here?
Premier Li Keqiang: True, China’s macro leverage ratio is not low by global standards, but it’s not the highest either. An important objective factor is the high savings rate in China and the lack of smooth channels of direct financing. The past few years have indeed seen a relatively fast increase in China’s leverage ratio. To ensure sustainable development in the long run, we have taken measures to stabilize the leverage ratio, which has led to a moderating increase in leverage in the first half of this year. The deleveraging we pursue is structural in nature, as the leverage ratio has become quite high in some sectors. Recent statistics have indicated the beginning of its downward trajectory in these sectors.
At the same time, though, we have taken note of the difficulties facing businesses, particularly micro and small businesses, in accessing affordable financing. We have endeavored to address this scarcity by rolling out a host of measures targeting micro and small businesses. We will also expand channels of direct financing by fostering the capital markets. For example, when we discovered inappropriate tax levies on venture capital funds recently, the State Council took swift steps to rescind these levies. We encourage the development of venture capital funds, which will offer more channels for direct financing.
Everything has both upsides and downsides. As an ancient adage cautions, one cannot have both the fish and bear’s paw, which essentially means that many decisions entail difficult trade-offs. The reason we have gone thus far is that we have made enormous efforts to minimize the trade-offs and achieve simultaneous progress of sometimes conflictual objectives. Continuing to do so would be a challenge and a test of our wisdom. We do hope distinguished guests present and insightful people around the world will contribute wisdom to us in meeting the challenges. The journey ahead may be tortuous, our goals will be achieved through steadfast efforts.
Stein Eric Hagen, Chairman of Orkla: My name is Stein Eric Hagen. I’m from Orkla, Norway. Mr. Premier, under the context of China-US trade frictions, a lot of countries such as Europe, the United States and Japan have started negotiations on bilateral free trade zones. The global trade governance system based on the WTO is facing great challenges. How does the Chinese government respond to this change and what measures will be taken to safeguard China’s status as a global trade power? Thank you.
Premier Li: Bilateral and multilateral trade talks are like two wheels, which should be complementary. It has been a long tradition of developed countries to engage in trade negotiations among themselves. They also have free trade talks with some developing countries. China, though being a developing country, has also been involved in bilateral FTA negotiations with some countries. We welcome any trade negotiations and wish them well so long as they are consistent with the trend of globalization and the basic principle of free trade.
Having said that, we cannot ignore the rising trend of protectionism in the world today, which has eroded the foundations of the multilateral trading regime. As we see it, the multilateral trading rules were negotiated and have been followed by the overwhelming majority of countries for many years. And at the heart of these rules is the principle of free trade. Bilateral trade negotiations in whatever form should serve to uphold this fundamental principle.
In the last few decades, mankind has come a long way in creating material wealth. We owe this, to a large measure, to a peaceful international environment and to free trade. As we live on the same planet, we should all abide by common precepts and agreed rules. Any action, which only benefits a small group of people at the cost of undercutting the rules formulated by the majority, will only end up hurting the interests of all. Our world is, after all, one of coexistence and interdependence.
I am not suggesting that the existing multilateral trading rules are above reform or improvement. In the process of globalization and free trade, problems of one kind or another have indeed cropped up and some countries may have complaints about them. In this case we need to sit down and discuss how to improve the multilateral trading rules to make them more responsive to the needs of world development and inclusive growth. Yet, this doesn’t mean that we should start all over again; what we need is to make improvements to the multilateral trade rules. In this process, we need to take care of the concerns and interests of all stakeholders, particularly those of developing countries and the least developed countries. The world can hardly be a tranquil place when a considerable number of people still live in abject poverty.
China takes a positive attitude toward reform of WTO rules. At this year’s China-EU Summit, the two sides agreed to set up a joint working group on WTO reform. When it comes to matters concerning all of us, the interests of all parties would be best served through discussions among all stakeholders.
The task before all countries is to both promote development and improve fairness and equity by helping those in need. The international community as a whole needs to do the same: we need to sustain the momentum of global recovery and promote development and prosperity and at the same time endeavor to narrow the North-South gap.
Jay Flatley, Executive Chairman of Illumina: I was very pleased yesterday to hear your remarks about opening up the Chinese markets. In particular, you discussed the financial markets and there’s been tremendous progress over the last few years in China opening up the financial markets. Yet many barriers remain here, and so I would appreciate if you could discuss the timetable for the opening-up of the financial markets in China and what opportunities that may provide to foreign corporations.
Premier Li: This year marks the 40th anniversary of China’s reform and opening-up. Compared with where we came from, the breadth and depth of China’s opening-up have gone far beyond our expectations, and those of our foreign friends. Since we have benefited from opening-up, we will only open wider to the world.
China is now a big trader in goods. We do run a trade surplus in goods, but that’s not our intention. What we want is more balanced trade. At the same time, China is running a deficit in trade in services, which has continued to widen year by year, including in the financial services sector.
Be it trade surplus or trade deficit, I believe the state of a country’s trade balance is mainly the result of its role in the international division of labor and position in the international industrial chain. As we do not deliberately seek surpluses or avoid deficits, we need to carefully weigh our choices: should we open up the services sector even wider or try to reduce the trade deficit in services? We have opted for the former. China will be firmly committed to opening up the services sector, even if it means a bigger deficit. Although this will present a greater challenge for our regulatory capacity, at the end of the day, opening the services sector will boost the competitiveness of Chinese companies, which is beneficial in the long run, and will provide more choices and be fairer for Chinese consumers.
The financial sector is a special case in that the level of its openness is closely linked to the development stage, economic sophistication and regulatory capacity of a country. For a major economy like China, maintaining financial stability is crucial not only to ourselves, but also to the world. That is why we will both stay firmly committed to opening up the financial sector, and at the same time ensure orderly progress.
Our goal going forward is to further open up the financial services sector. Just as we have removed foreign ownership caps in the banking sector, we plan to take similar steps in the insurance and securities sectors in the next few years and phase in full-license, full-ownership operation in an orderly way. Naturally, an important precondition for this would be qualifications, which is a must for financial service providers in any country.
That said, we are prepared to gradually introduce pre-establishment national treatment for foreign-invested companies in the financial sector. We are making preparations for such reforms. I hope in three years’ time, there will be a number of foreign ventures qualified for full-license, full-ownership operation in the financial sector.
Takeshi Niinami, President of Suntory Holdings: While China has strengthened IPR protection over the years, there are still some companies facing IPR infringement. In your opinion, how to effectively protect IPR both institutionally and legislatively? What specific measures will be taken in the future?
Premier Li: In your question you underscored the need for China to strengthen the protection of intellectual property rights (IPR) in the process of expanding reform and opening-up and attracting foreign investment. As a matter of fact, protecting IPR is our consistent policy. We are doing this not just for the sake of attracting foreign investment but also to serve our own needs of promoting innovation-driven development. Without proper IPR protection, it would be almost impossible for us to achieve economic transformation and upgrading and move from the medium-low to the medium-high level of industrial development. This is something we must do as it serves our own interests and conforms to international rules.
While strengthening IPR protection, China has toughened punishment for acts of infringement. In the past 5 years, more than 1.4 million cases of infringement were investigated and handled. Going forward, we will mete out even more severe punishment and impose even bigger fines, so that violators will face crippling penalties and find it hard to survive in their business sectors and even in the whole marketplace.
When we started to develop the market economy, we understood that property rights are the very foundation of a market economy. Likewise, protecting IPR is fundamental to the development of our innovation-driven economy. Such an understanding must be the consensus of the whole society. I have made this clear on many occasions. During meetings with foreign business leaders, I often ask them to report cases of IPR infringements directly to me or to the relevant departments. But for various reasons, they would normally not raise such issues during meetings with me. As you just pointed out, there are still some complaints in this area. I would again encourage all of you to speak up. Mishandling of complaints on the part of competent government departments would be dealt with.
On this matter, talking the talk is not as good as walking the walk. I hope and I trust that you can see China’s redoubled efforts to build a more rigorous and effective regime of IPR protection. Naturally, cooperation with various parties would be helpful. On the other hand, just like other countries, we support fair and equitable IPR transactions based on market rules. Royalties for patents and technologies paid by Chinese companies to overseas proprietors ranked high in the world last year, and may increase further in the future. Forced IPR transfer will never be allowed in China.
Sandra Wu, Chairperson and President of Kokusai Kogyo Co., Ltd: My question is about tax reform. During the “Two Sessions” in March, you mentioned further tax relief. And in early July, we witnessed the merge of state and local taxation bureaus, which strongly indicated smooth progress of China’s tax reform to promote free competition. And so in the future, what other measures will the Chinese government take to make sure this reform will move forward and lessen the burden on enterprises?
Premier Li: You seem to know quite a lot about what is happening in China. A few years ago, faced with considerable downward pressure on the economy and declining fiscal revenues, the Chinese government made the decision to substantially cut taxes. We abolished the business tax that had been in place for sixty years and adjusted the value added tax (VAT) rate to reduce tax burdens on small and medium-sized enterprises and encourage corporate R&D spending. These measures have paid off.
From the second half of last year to the first half of this year, tax revenues have increased notably and grown faster than GDP. This is mainly because of China’s steady economic performance, which has contributed to an over 15% increase in the profits of industrial companies in the first half of this year. What’s more, thanks to our reform of transforming government functions, our tax source has been expanding at a rate of 200,000 newly registered market entities every month. These factors have largely contributed to the fast increase in fiscal revenue. Given all this, our priority remains to ensure the effective delivery of tax reduction measures on the ground.
In the second half of this year, we are seeing significant decreases in both central and local government revenues as a result of further cuts in VAT and other taxes which became effective on 1 May. In view of the complicated international situation and internal challenges facing China’s development, we will enact more significant cuts in taxes and fees, including further lowering the VAT rate and implementing the personal income tax deduction scheme in a fair and expeditious way to boost household spending. As a further step of institutional reform, we will transfer the responsibility for collecting social security contributions to the taxation authorities. As taxes and contributions are two different levies, existing policies on the collection of contributions will remain unchanged for the time being, and forced payments of contributions arrears will not be allowed.
Given that the aforementioned institutional reform may lead to more efficient collection of social security contributions, we will consider meaningfully lowering the contribution rate, so that this reform will not add to business burdens, as this would be just the opposite of our intentions. The government should tighten its belt rather than shift the burdens onto businesses. Only in this way can we deliver a better life for our people.
Let me stress that all enterprises registered in China, be they foreign-invested, privately-invested or of any ownership types, will receive fair treatment in benefiting from administrative rollback and tax and fee cuts. If you encounter any case of unfair treatment, please feel free to file complaints.
Elisabet de los Pinos, Founder and CEO of Aura Biosciences: The Chinese government has set out the guidelines for innovation and entrepreneurship, which lay out the importance of innovation in the development strategy. So we are interested to know what is the progress in these programs, and more importantly, how the international business community can better address and participate in this process.
Premier Li: Innovation lies at the center of our efforts to promote economic development and foster new growth drivers. Over recent years, we have made enormous efforts in this area with effective results. For example, we have promoted the mass entrepreneurship and innovation campaign and introduced reform of government functions. These efforts have resulted in a surge of new market entities, with the number of companies registered on an average day increasing from over 1,000 to 18,000 in August this year. And the number of business entities in China has exceeded 100 million.
The nationwide entrepreneurship and innovation drive in China originated from the belief that everyone has the capability and opportunity to make innovations. If each of the 1.3 billion Chinese and every member of our 900-million-strong labor force can be incentivized to innovate, we can well imagine how powerful this wave of innovation will be. To quote the theme of this year’s Annual Meeting, “Shaping Innovative Societies in the Fourth Industrial Revolution”, I believe an innovative society is one which taps into the creativity of every individual.
Second, in promoting innovation, we need to create equal opportunities for every individual. We are advancing the reform to streamline administration, delegate powers, strengthen compliance oversight and improve government services. All these are aimed to allow every individual an equal opportunity to make innovations, which will help to make a big difference in the lives of many and to better achieve efficiency and fairness.
Third, innovation is taking place against the backdrop of globalization. As China embraces the world with open arms, we also welcome entrepreneurs, scientists and people in other sectors around the world to participate in China’s development with an open mind, so that together, we can make joint contributions to the progress of humanity. Let me reassure you that China is firmly committed to protecting IPR, as we know that innovation is supported by ideas, which generates property rights.
Here in China, you will see that hundreds of millions of people have pooled their wisdom and strengths to engage in innovation empowered by the Internet Plus model. I believe that your interactions with innovators in China will give rise to brilliant new inspirations. As entrepreneurs, you need to make profits, but I trust you also have your own career goals to pursue. I hope that your participation in China’s innovation drive will help realize your goals."
"Tianjin, 19 September 2018
Professor Klaus Schwab,
Your Excellencies Heads of State and Government,
Distinguished Guests,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
It is a great pleasure to join you again in Tianjin. Let me begin by extending, on behalf of the Chinese government, warm congratulations on the opening of the Annual Meeting of the New Champions 2018, and a sincere welcome to all guests from afar.
Since its inception years ago, the Summer Davos Forum has borne witness to the efforts by various countries to tackle the global financial crisis and bring about global recovery. As a gathering of new champions in the business community, the Forum has contributed forward-looking insights to the quest for new pathways and engines for global growth and transformation.
It is encouraging to note the collective global recovery that has emerged following a tortuous journey. This recovery is, to a large measure, driven by the new round of industrial revolution and a new boom in innovation, which has lent fresh impetus to global economic development. That said, our world is faced with rising uncertainties and destabilizing factors, and a growing backlash against globalization. How to boost the new drivers to secure sustained growth of the global economy is a key area of concern for all of us. In this context, the theme of this Annual Meeting, “Shaping Innovative Societies in the Fourth Industrial Revolution”, cannot be more relevant.
In his keynote speech at the World Economic Forum early last year, President Xi Jinping stated China’s firm commitment to economic globalization, free trade and innovation-driven development. As we mark the 40th anniversary of reform and opening-up in China this year, we have introduced a host of major steps to deepen reform, expand opening-up and advance innovation, aiming to promote both China’s own development and global growth.
To boost the new drivers of global growth, we need to firmly uphold economic globalization, which has provided fertile ground for the new industrial revolution. The liberalization of trade and investment and the free flow of factors of production and innovation that accompanied economic globalization have fostered highly interconnected global industrial, innovation and value chains, and enabled the expansion of the new industrial revolution at a speed, scale and depth unseen before. New technologies and new industries emerged in clusters and grew exponentially, making breakthroughs across a wide range of sectors. Economies around the world got involved in this process to varying degrees, with deepening interconnectedness and interdependence. One case in point is the fact that 40% of China’s exports in goods and two thirds of its high-tech exports came from foreign-invested enterprises in China.
The rules-based multilateral trading system is the bedrock of economic globalization and free trade, and provides important safeguards for win-win outcomes. The authority and efficacy of the system should be respected and protected. Some WTO rules do need to be improved. The right approach is for all to sit down as equals to find solutions. Throughout this process, the fundamental principles of free trade should be upheld, the interests and concerns of all parties be accommodated, and the broadest possible consensus on reform be built up. Taking a unilateralist approach will not solve any problems. As no one can thrive on his own in the new industrial revolution, we must draw on each other’s comparative strengths and act together to nurture and promote innovation for shared benefits. Governments need to support businesses in collaborating on innovation in line with market principles and commercial rules, while fully protecting their intellectual property rights. Greater government-business synergy will facilitate the new industrial revolution.
To boost the new drivers of global growth in the new industrial revolution, we need to make development more inclusive. Different from previous industrial revolutions, the new round of industrial revolution is enabled by online platforms in a ubiquitously networked environment. Lower thresholds of entry have presented all with an equal and accessible opportunity to participate and benefit. Empowered by the Internet, anyone, no matter in urban or rural areas, can easily start his own business, make innovations and create wealth. As we can see, the development of smart phone applications has spawned massive industrial clusters, as tens of thousands of people upload their technical solutions and industrial application proposals onto open platforms. To turn possibilities into reality, an enabling environment is indispensable. It is imperative to enhance institutional arrangements for equal rights, equal opportunities and fair rules, follow a balanced and inclusive development approach, make education universal, and better support the vulnerable groups so as to achieve more inclusive development that benefits all.
To boost the new drivers of global growth in the new industrial revolution, we need to pursue integrated innovation and development. The new industrial revolution holds out infinite promise. Today, natural sciences, social sciences and liberal arts are deeply entwined as never before. And different sectors, enterprises and communities can leverage each other’s strengths like never before. Artificial intelligence cuts across an array of disciplines such as algorithm, bionics, sensor technology, and ethics.
E-commerce is another example of integrated innovation and development. Transaction platforms, which are set up by big companies and joined by micro, small and medium-sized enterprises as well as individual business owners, have created conditions for the direct matching of supply and demand, production and sales, resulting in a large number of new forms of business, new models and new jobs. We must seize this momentum to promote wider application of the Internet Plus model, clear the hindrance to optimized allocation of production factors, and establish more inter-disciplinary, multi-stakeholder innovation platforms to open up broader space for the development of the new growth drivers.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
China has made vigorous efforts to nurture new growth drivers. Facing a weak global economy and downward pressure on the Chinese economy in the past several years, China, instead of resorting to massive stimulus, stayed the course of reform and innovation guided by the new development philosophy. Seizing the opportunity of the new industrial revolution and harnessing our advantages in human resources and market potential, we have focused on enhancing the new growth drivers and accelerating the shift from traditional drivers of growth to new ones. Our endeavors have produced better-than-expected results: the new drivers have played a key role in sustaining growth, adjusting the economic structure and expanding employment.
We have made vigorous efforts to streamline administration and cut taxes and fees, unlocking market vitality. Our businesses and the general public often encounter red tape and high cost in their investment and operations and in starting a business and accessing government services. To address these issues, we have substantially reduced the number of items requiring administrative approval, reformed the business system, and taken the initiative to slash taxes and fees. In particular, we rolled out a nationwide program of replacing business tax with VAT in a phased manner, which has lowered institutional transaction costs and production and operation costs. The VAT reform has also improved China’s business environment and enhanced the quality and performance of Chinese companies.
In the past five years, the number of market entities in China has surged by nearly 80% to more than 100 million, and around 70% of new market entities are in active operation. This has not only accelerated the development of new drivers but also given a strong boost to employment. We are now seeing more than 13 million new urban jobs created each year in China. Employment generates income, which produces new consumption and investment, thus fostering a healthy cycle of economic development.
We have adopted a prudent yet accommodative approach to regulation, contributing to a boom in emerging industries. New industries, new forms of business and new models create new driving forces. In the beginning we may only have limited knowledge of the workings of emerging industries, which can be vastly or even completely different from traditional ones. Therefore, mechanically following old regulatory methods will not work, just like one shouldn’t cut the toes to fit new shoes. Instead, we have established a prudent yet accommodative regulatory approach.
Our approach is this: as long as new forms of business and new models do not go against laws or regulations, cross the line of security or damage public interests, we will take an accommodative attitude toward their innovations by leaving sufficient space for their development. If we are not immediately certain about the prospect of these new forms of business and new models, we will allow time to prudently observe their performances instead of imposing a regulatory straitjacket right away.
Any regulatory measures to be taken will be carefully assessed to make sure that they serve the purpose of both deterring malpractices and guiding the sound and orderly development of new forms of business. For those businesses that may entail huge risks or serious social consequences, we will make sure that these risks are dealt with resolutely. This also applies to the regulation of existing forms of business. For those malpractices that involve seeking illegal gains, putting lives and property in danger, cheating and swindling, making or selling fake or substandard goods, and infringing on IPRs, we will mete out serious punishment in accordance with the law, no matter whether they emanate from emerging or traditional businesses, or are conducted online or offline. This regulatory approach has facilitated the rapid rise of emerging industries, such as online shopping, mobile payment and the sharing economy, which have become a hallmark of the thriving new drivers of the Chinese economy.
We have encouraged mass entrepreneurship and innovation, inspiring immense social creativity. China has a workforce of nearly 900 million, among which 170 million have received higher education or training in professional skills. Every year we produce over eight million university graduates and over five million graduates from secondary vocational schools. To tap their vast creative potential, we have made institutional improvements, adopted supportive policies, and fostered an enabling ecosystem for entrepreneurship and innovation. We have strengthened services to encourage university students and returnee migrant workers to start their own businesses as a way to meet their job needs. We have reformed the science and technology management system and expanded the right of researchers to own and benefit from their scientific and technological achievements.
We have sought to exert the primary role of companies in innovation and adopted policy incentives for all companies that increase R&D input. We have built open and sharing platforms to promote collaborative innovation by large, medium and small companies, research institutes, universities and makers, making innovation more efficient and faster. In the past five years, the number of in-force Chinese invention patents has tripled, and the annual volume of technology transactions doubled. The Global Innovation Index 2018 recently published by the World Intellectual Property Organization and other institutions puts China at the 17th place globally, 18 places higher than in 2013.
As an ancient Chinese poem reads, verdant trees and gurgling springs herald a vibrant season. Likewise, the growing ranks of entrepreneurs and innovators are making China a magnet for innovation and business ventures and creating new horizons for economic development powered by new drivers. High-tech industries and advanced manufacturing are spearheading China’s industrial development, new forms and models of services keep emerging, and the industrial structure is upgrading at a faster pace. Online sales have increased by more than 30% annually, and new forms of consumption, such as information and green consumption, have seen rapid growth, raising the share of consumption in economic growth to over 60%. China’s economic structure and growth pattern has also seen a major shift, with new drivers contributing more than one third to economic growth and two thirds to new urban jobs, which lays a solid foundation for sustained and sound economic growth.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Let me now turn to China’s economic development and policy trends in the current international environment, as this is a topic of much interest. In the first half of this year, China’s economy expanded by 6.8%, staying within the medium-high growth range of 6.7-6.9% for 12 quarters in a row. In the first eight months of this year, over 10 million urban jobs were created, and the surveyed urban unemployment rate was kept at a relatively low level of around 5%. Over 18,000 new companies are set up on an average day, and corporate profits of large industrial companies have maintained double-digit growth. On the whole, the Chinese economy has stayed on the track of steady progress, with growing new drivers and sound fundamentals.
Having said that, China is confronted with a host of difficulties and challenges in economic development. Deeply integrated into the world economy, the Chinese economy is inevitably affected by notable changes in the global economic and trade context. The moderation of growth in domestic investment and consumption has added to the difficulties of some companies and weighed on the stable performance of the economy. Nevertheless, China’s development has always been achieved through overcoming all sorts of difficulties and challenges, which have never been insurmountable. There were numerous occasions when we faced severe challenges, yet each time we managed to pull through and only emerged stronger than ever before.
Today’s China boasts a more solid material and technological foundation, a fairly complete industrial system, and broad space for urban-rural and regional development. It also enjoys huge new market demand generated by the upgrading of consumption and economic restructuring, abundant and increasingly competent human resources, vibrant entrepreneurship and innovation activities across the society, and a reserve of innovative measures and policy tools for macro regulation. All this gives our economy sufficient resilience, potential and space for maneuver. We have the confidence, ability and means to cope with the current difficulties and challenges. The express train of China’s economy will not lose speed but stay on a steady course.
Creating a stable and predictable macro-environment is an important precondition for steady economic performance. China did not resort to massive stimulus in the past; there is no reason why we should do it now. To make sure the economy operates within a proper range, we will continue to develop new and better ways of macro regulation, and keep to the fundamental goals of our macro policies while giving more attention to pre-emptive measures and fine-tuning. Stable employment is always a top priority for a populous country like China; it must be ensured as part of the key parameters delineating the proper range of economic operation. In this connection, we will improve the policy system to put employment first, develop full-fledged job promotion and security mechanisms, strengthen all types of public employment services to attain fairer and more adequate employment.
We will more proactively leverage the fiscal policy in boosting domestic demand and restructuring, and will implement further cuts in taxes and fees. We will pursue a prudent monetary policy with appropriate intensity to keep the macro leverage ratio stable and liquidity reasonably ample. We will see to it that the monetary policy transmission mechanisms are smoothed out in order to channel more funding into the real economy and make financing more accessible and affordable for micro businesses and SMEs.
The recent fluctuations in the RMB exchange rate have been seen by some as an intentional measure on the part of China. This is simply not true. Persistent depreciation of the RMB will only do more harm than good to our country. China is steadfast in its commitment to a market-oriented exchange rate reform. We will not engage in competitive devaluation; we will work to create conditions for keeping the value of the yuan stable. Given the healthy fundamentals of the Chinese economy, our sound balance of international payments and abundant foreign exchange reserves, there is every reason that the RMB exchange rate will remain basically stable at an adaptive and equilibrium level.
The Chinese economy is now at a crucial stage of shifting from traditional drivers of growth to new ones. We will adhere to the general principle of seeking progress while maintaining a stable performance, and focus on supply-side structural reforms to invigorate the market, bolster self-driven development and unleash the potential of China’s domestic demand. Through these efforts, we aim to keep the economy at a medium-high rate of growth and move our industries to a medium-high level.
First, China will work even harder to advance reform and opening-up. We will deepen reforms in all respects, especially reform in fundamental and key areas. By further streamlining administration, delegating powers, strengthening compliance oversight and improving government services, we will further widen market access, raise policy transparency, and exercise fair and impartial regulation to create a market environment in which companies of all ownerships, be they Chinese or foreign-owned, are treated as equals and compete on a level playing field. We will deliver and step up policy measures in support of the private sector, remove all hidden obstacles to their investment, protect all types of property rights, and incentivize entrepreneurial and innovation activities.
This year, we have taken steps to significantly ease market access for foreign investors in services sectors, particularly the financial sector, and lowered tariffs on some imported goods. This is a voluntary choice China has made in light of its own development needs. Going forward, we will open up further to enhance convergence with international economic and trade rules, and foster a world-class business environment. We will encourage more Chinese companies to go global in an orderly way and to pursue third-party cooperation with full sensitivity to local conditions. China’s economic growth now accounts for about 30 percent of the world’s total. The Chinese market is simply too big for any far-sighted business leaders to ignore and we welcome businesses from all over the world to share in China’s development opportunities.
Second, China will work even harder on restructuring. Our country is still at the lower end of the industrial chain. We will continue to encourage businesses to transform and upgrade traditional manufacturing by harnessing new technologies and new business models. At the same time, we will give strong support to emerging industries and services sectors, phase out outdated production capacities through market-driven and law-based measures, and promote integrated development between the primary, secondary and tertiary industries to substantially raise the quality of made–in-China goods and services.
Given that consumption has now become the primary driver of China’s economic growth, we need to increase household incomes through multiple channels to expand the spending power of our consumers. The new personal income tax law to be implemented soon will notably reduce tax burdens on individuals, particularly low- and medium-income earners. We will introduce more effective policies to boost consumption and meet the diversified and individualized needs of our people. We are aware that there are still short planks in infrastructure and livelihood areas. To shore them up, we will expand effective investment and encourage private sector participation in these areas. This will enable us to provide more public goods and services, and boost the economy while improving living standards.
Third, China will work even harder to stimulate innovation. Raising China’s innovative capacity requires a multi-pronged approach. We will foster an innovation-friendly environment in which basic research and applied basic research are supported, more corporate R&D spending is encouraged, and innovation outcomes are commercialized at a faster pace. We will introduce more effective policies and new mechanisms to make innovation platforms such as makerspaces and incubators more market-based and professional, and achieve integrated and synergized development of industries, universities, research institutes and end users in both online and offline activities.
To protect IPR is to protect and promote innovation. China cannot realize innovation-driven development without respect for and protection of IPR. Therefore, we have put in place a complete legal framework for IPR protection and set up special tribunals to handle IPR cases. Since China’s accession to the WTO, intellectual property royalties paid by Chinese companies to overseas proprietors have increased by 14 times. Going forward, we will further strengthen law enforcement and introduce a more rigorous mechanism of punitive compensation for IPR infringements to deter violations and better protect innovators from all sectors.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
The new industrial revolution unfolding before our eyes is changing the world in profound ways, ushering in an era of unlimited space for innovation and infinite possibilities to develop and prosper. China is ready to join the rest of the world in nurturing new drivers for the world economy and harnessing the industrial revolution for the wellbeing of all peoples. To conclude, let me wish the Annual Meeting a full success!"
"Chinese President Xi Jinping on July 20 published a signed article titled "SUNU JAPPO, China and Senegal!" on mainstream Senegalese newspaper Le Soleil ahead of his state visit to the African country.
The following is the full text of the article:
SUNU JAPPO, China and Senegal!
Xi Jinping
President of the People's Republic of China
When talking about Senegal, the Lions of Teranga, its national football team and one of the best in Africa, and the Dakar Rally, the world's toughest rally, are the first things that come to people's mind. Senegal is also a country with a time-honored history and rich culture and home to many famous names. Leopold Sedar Senghor, the founding President, was a renowned poet and writer. During his visit to China in 1974, he had a conversation with Chairman Mao Zedong about poem. His works, which champion Negritude, have inspired the people of Senegal and Africa with a strong sense of national pride and confidence.
In recent years, under the leadership of President Macky Sall, Senegal has become a land of robust growth, striding proudly toward the ambitious goals set out in the Plan for an Emerging Senegal. I am looking forward to my upcoming state visit to the country at the invitation of President Sall, an opportunity to enhance our mutual understanding and friendship, deepen cooperation and advance China-Senegal relations.
China-Senegal relations have traversed a journey of 47 years. Over the years, despite the ups and downs or even setbacks at times, the relationship is overwhelmingly defined by mutual support, friendly cooperation and affinity between our peoples. The restoration of diplomatic ties in 2005 opened up a new chapter in China-Senegal relations. China supports Senegal in choosing a development path in line with its national conditions and Senegal firmly supports China on issues concerning China's core interests. Our two countries now enjoy enhanced political mutual trust, fruitful practical cooperation that benefits both countries and close coordination on major international and regional issues. China-Senegal relationship has been elevated from a long-term friendly cooperative partnership to a comprehensive strategic partnership.
Today, China is Senegal's second largest trading partner and the top importer of Senegalese peanuts. Our trade volume grew by 16 times in just over a decade. China is also Senegal's biggest source of financing. The many China-funded projects, including the Foundiougne bridge and the Thies-Touba highway, will strongly boost Senegal's economic growth. The rural water supply project that includes 251 wells and 1800-kilometer pipelines funded by China will benefit one seventh of Senegal's population. The National Grand Theater, the Museum of Black Civilization and the National Wrestling Arena, built with Chinese assistance, stand as important venues to carry forward the culture and traditions of Senegal.
A Chinese proverb has it that, "Just as distance tests a horse's strength, time will reveal a person's sincerity." Decades ago, President Senghor was deeply touched when he saw Chinese agricultural experts toiling in the field side by side with local Senegalese, mud on their hands. Today, Chinese experts are still out there, working with their Senegalese brothers and sisters on rice and vegetable farming technologies. That's how friendship has taken deep roots in the hearts of our two peoples. In 2013, Birama Diadji TOURE, a 65-year-old Senegalese, took part in the Experience China knowledge contest and emerged winning the top prize out of 250,000 contestants from all over the world. Birama was later invited to visit China, fulfilling his long-cherished dream. Right now, some 800 Senegalese students are studying in China. The number of business and tourist travels between the two countries have been increasing by over 20% annually. With every telephone call, every email and every handshake, our mutual understanding goes deeper and the bond of friendship becomes stronger.
"Nit, nit ay garabam (Man is the remedy of man)", says a Wolof proverb. Similarly, there is a Chinese saying to the effect of "one for all, all for one". Having gone through thick and thin together, China, Senegal and the vast African countries are bound by similar historical experience, same development tasks and shared aspiration for a better life. To achieve common development and prosperity, we need to join hands to build an even stronger China-Africa community with a shared future.
In 2013, I put forward the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), a pathway to common development through improved infrastructure and connectivity and greater synergy of development strategies. It has been warmly welcomed by Senegal and many other African countries, who have since shown great interest in joining the BRI cooperation. This September, a Summit of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC) will be held in Beijing. By bringing together the BRI, the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, Agenda 2063 of the African Union and African countries' national development plans, the summit will break new grounds for China-Africa cooperation. It also presents us with an opportunity to elevate China-Senegal relations to a higher level.
We need to uphold equality and mutual trust. As good friends and partners who trust and help each other with sincerity, China and Senegal need to adopt a long-term approach in growing our bilateral relationship and firmly support each other on issues of core interests and major concern.
We need to foster greater synergy between our strategies. Senegal's economy is at a crucial juncture. And China is seeking high-quality development. As such, China stands ready to increase exchange on governance with Senegal and share China's experience from four decades of reform and opening up, including industrial development, rural vitalization and poverty alleviation, which will be beneficial to both of our countries.
We need to deepen practical cooperation. Leveraging the BRI and the platform of FOCAC, China will work with Senegal to tap our respective strengths in the trade and processing of agricultural and aquatic products, infrastructure, production capacity, industrial parks and human resources development, all of which are important for Senegal's capability to achieve home-grown development. China also wishes to have closer discussions and cooperation with Senegal to see to it that financing arrangements are based on sound planning, economically feasible and done in a step-by-step manner, thus ensuring their sustainability.
We need to strengthen people-to-people ties. It's important to further friendly exchange between our education and research institutions, cultural and art groups, media and youth organizations so that the express train of China-Senegal cooperation will speed ahead smoothly.
We need to enhance cooperation on regional and international affairs. China will step up communication and coordination with Senegal on major issues relating to the UN, upholding the multilateral trading regime, climate change and peace and development of Africa. We also look forward to working with Senegal under FOCAC to strengthen mechanisms of the forum and more broadly, the relationship between China and African countries.
Similar dreams and shared destiny have brought the Chinese and Senegalese people together. It is thus our shared mission to join hands and bring our mutually beneficial cooperation to greater fruition. Sunu Jappo, China and Senegal!"
"Chinese President Xi Jinping on July 18 published a signed article titled "Working Hand in Hand for a Better Future" on Al Ittihad and The National, two mainstream newspapers in the United Arab Emirates (UAE), ahead of his state visit to the Middle East country.
The following is the full text of the article:
Working Hand in Hand for a Better Future
Xi Jinping
President of the People's Republic of China
I will pay a state visit to the United Arab Emirates (UAE) on July 19th at the invitation of President Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan. The UAE will be the first stop of my first overseas trip this year and also the first Arab state I will visit since my re-election as President of the People's Republic of China.
The friendship between the peoples of China and the UAE dates back to ancient times. Our ancestors started trade through the ancient Silk Road well over 2,000 years ago and forged a friendship that remains vibrant to this day. With the opening of trade routes at sea in the 7th century, Chinese silk and porcelain were marketed to the Arabian Peninsula, East Africa and Europe while Arab spices and pearls were brought to Asia through the Indian Ocean.
In 1984, China and the UAE established diplomatic ties, opening a new chapter in the bilateral exchanges and cooperation.
The past 34 years have seen a most dynamic growth of China-UAE traditional friendship and people-to-people exchanges. In the wake of the deadly earthquakes in 2008 which devastated Wenchuan in China's Sichuan Province, the UAE government donated 50 million U.S. dollars. The Chinese people will always remember the solidarity and compassion that came from the UAE.
The past 34 years have seen a robust expansion of our economies in a development miracle occurring on both ends of the Eurasian continent. China has emerged as a strong driving force for world economic growth and the UAE has become an oasis of development for the Arab world.
The past 34 years have also seen a fruitful effort of our two nations each to explore a development path befitting our respective circumstances. In the process of an accelerated modernization drive, our independence has remained intact. The development philosophies and policy objectives of our countries are similar. Our bonds of cooperation are growing stronger. China and the UAE have become bosom friends who help and complement each other, and important partners who always communicate and coordinate with each other on regional and international affairs.
In 2012, China and the UAE established a strategic partnership. The UAE is the first Gulf state to have done so with China. Thanks to the strategic partnership, our bilateral cooperation has embarked on a fast track and covered more areas. What should be specially mentioned is the visit to China by Crown Prince Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan of Abu Dhabi in December 2015. During his visit, the Crown Prince and I reached an important consensus on the way forward for a stronger relationship between the two countries. China-UAE friendly cooperation has since made landmark achievements.
-- Our upstream energy cooperation is off to a good start. In 2017, the UAE awarded Chinese companies a combined 12 percent stakes in Abu Dhabi's onshore oil concession, the first time for China to acquire stakes in upstream cooperation in an oil-producing country in the Middle East. In March 2018, the UAE awarded a Chinese entity another 10 percent stake in each of the two offshore concessions in Abu Dhabi.
-- Our industrial capacity cooperation has made historic progress. The Khalifa Port Container Terminal Two, a project jointly built and operated by Chinese and UAE companies with a designed annual capacity of 2.4 million TEUs, will be up and running in the first quarter of 2019. The China-UAE Industrial Capacity Cooperation Demonstration Zone located in the Khalifa Industrial Zone has made good progress. As things stand now, 16 enterprises have signed letters of intent with a committed investment of 6.4 billion yuan.
-- Our new and high technology cooperation is on the rise. The 700-MW Concentrated Solar Power (CSP), a China-UAE joint project, is under construction in Dubai. It will be the world's largest and most advanced solar thermal power plant. The Hassyan Clean Coal Power Plant, the first Middle East project financed by the Silk Road Fund, will be the first clean coal plant in the region upon completion.
-- Our financial cooperation is growing in depth. In December 2015, the central banks of our two countries renewed their currency swap agreement and signed an MOU on RMB clearing arrangements in the UAE. The two central banks also agreed to expand the RMB Qualified Foreign Institutional Investors (RQFII) pilot area to the UAE. The China-UAE Joint Investment Fund has finalized its plans for investment in 12 projects valued at 1.07 billion U.S. dollars.
-- Our people-to-people and cultural exchanges are multiplying. The UAE is now the most favored first stop for Chinese tourists traveling to Arab destinations in the Middle East. In 2017, the number of Chinese tourist arrivals in the UAE exceeded the mark of one million for the first time in history, and about 3.5 million Chinese tourists transited through the UAE. Starting from 2017, UAE citizens traveling on ordinary passports may visit China visa-free. The UAE is the first Middle East country to have been granted such visa-exemption treatment by China. Moreover, the UAE Youth Ambassadors Program has organized six China tours for over 100 young people from the UAE.
A new journey needs leaders with strong resolve. A new mission needs people with strong commitment. In 2014, I called on the Arab world to join in Belt and Road cooperation. The Arab states responded favorably to my invitation. The Crown Prince Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan of Abu Dhabi noted in his visionary statement that we share the aspiration of building stronger ties between the Arab world and China in such a modern way as the new Silk Road, and that the cooperation under this framework is highly necessary because we have far greater ambitions, albeit the rapid growth of our bilateral relations.
Belt and Road cooperation is rooted in the history of the ancient Silk Road and dovetails with the development needs of Arab states, especially their economic diversification and industrialization. I look forward to working with the UAE leaders to draw up a blueprint for China-UAE cooperation so as to unlock its full potentials and advance China-UAE relations at a higher level and speed and build a China-UAE community of shared future in Belt and Road cooperation. Hopefully we will be able to deliver more tangible benefits to our two peoples through these endeavors.
To this end, I hope that our two countries will work hand in hand as:
-- Strategic partners who truly trust each other. Given the unprecedented development, transformation and adjustment the world is undergoing, China and the UAE need to strengthen their communication and coordination, safeguard and expand their common interests in regional and international affairs, and jointly contribute to world peace, stability and prosperity.
-- Collaborative partners who pursue win-win outcomes and mutual benefits. Under the framework of Belt and Road cooperation, China and the UAE need to strengthen policy communication, speed up integrated development, uphold the multilateral trading system, and see that economic globalization is more open, inclusive, balanced and beneficial to all.
-- Interactive partners who learn from each other. China and the UAE need to deepen cooperation in culture, education, tourism, youth, media and other areas, and promote dialogue and mutual learning between religions and civilizations. In this connection, China will open a Chinese culture center in Abu Dhabi. China will support and participate in Expo 2020 Dubai, which will be the first Expo held in the Middle East.
-- Innovative partners who champion result-oriented actions. Both our nations are known for a trail-blazing spirit and pursuit of excellence. China is implementing its innovation-driven development strategy, and the UAE is acting on its National Innovation Strategy, Energy Strategy 2050 and a six-pillar plan for the Fourth Industrial Revolution. Our two countries may work in concert to seek new breakthroughs in new- and high-tech cooperation.
As time marches on, the world changes and evolves into a new one. Our two countries are geographically far apart and different in national conditions. But we are both proud to have an enterprising and creative people who never give up their dreams.
I once said, we Chinese have realized since the beginning of our nation that there is no such a thing as sitting idle and enjoying all the benefits. Happiness is to be earned through hard work. Similarly, the founding father of the UAE, His Highness President Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, aptly noted that oil alone cannot bring progress to a country and that it must be combined with the hard work of its people. I am convinced that with the support and participation of our two peoples, we will be able to make history with our mutually-beneficial cooperation and contribute more to the world and the future that we share."
"Jakarta, 7 May 2018
Dato Lim Jock Hoi, Secretary General of ASEAN,
Permanent Representatives to ASEAN,
Members of the diplomatic corps,
Distinguished guests,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
It gives me great pleasure to visit the ASEAN Secretariat. The first thing I saw upon entering the Secretariat court was the billowing national flags of the ASEAN member states. For me that is a powerful symbol of the unity and vibrancy of ASEAN as an organization. As ASEAN's permanent institution, the Secretariat has played an important role in promoting ASEAN community building and ASEAN's exchange and cooperation with the rest of the world. Let me extend, on behalf of the Chinese government, warm greetings and best wishes to all colleagues of the Secretariat, to the diplomatic envoys, to friends from the think tanks and media, and to all those who have cared for and supported the friendship and cooperation between China and ASEAN.
Celebrating its golden jubilee last year, ASEAN has been one of the most successful organizations of regional cooperation. With united and pioneering efforts over the past half a century, ASEAN countries have lifted Southeast Asia from the woes of conflict and poverty, and turned the sub-region into a land of peace, stability and development. You have established the first sub-regional community in Asia. You succeeded in setting up an ASEAN-led regional cooperation architecture and making ASEAN an important player in upholding regional peace and stability, advancing regional integration and promoting world multi-polarity. ASEAN's progress is a testament to the unity, resilience, vitality and strength of its ten members. I admire the extraordinary achievements ASEAN has made and I am fully confident that ASEAN enjoys an even brighter future.
Linked by mountains and rivers, China and ASEAN are good neighbors, good friends and good partners. Our cooperation has gone far beyond the bilateral scope and has become an important force for promoting peace, stability and common prosperity in our region. Taking ASEAN as a high priority in its neighborhood diplomacy, China has been committed to growing friendship and cooperation with ASEAN, and supported ASEAN community building and ASEAN centrality in regional cooperation. China supports ASEAN in playing an even bigger role in developing an open and inclusive regional architecture.
This year marks the 15th anniversary of the China-ASEAN strategic partnership. In the past 15 years, we have nurtured good-neighborly relations and built mutual trust. We stood side by side during challenging times, such as the global financial crisis and major natural disasters, and made tireless efforts to promote regional peace and common prosperity. By deepening cooperation with a people-centered approach, we have worked together to develop the Belt and Road Initiative and enhance people-to-people exchange, delivering real benefits to the countries and peoples in the region.
Distinguished guests,
This year marks the 40th anniversary of China's reform and opening-up policy. It is also the start of the next fifty years of ASEAN. In the course of China's reform and opening-up and ASEAN integration, China and ASEAN countries have developed side by side and together embarked on a path of growth and prosperity. In his keynote speech at the Boao Forum for Asia Annual Conference held last month, President Xi Jinping put forward the vision for building a shared future and set out a series of new measures China will take for wider opening-up. China's development will bring greater opportunities to the world, and ASEAN countries as China's close neighbors stand to benefit more and earlier from these opportunities. We welcome ASEAN countries to get on-board the fast train of China's development and wishes to work with ASEAN to build a closer community with a shared future and a better tomorrow for China-ASEAN cooperation.
China is committed to be ASEAN's partner for common development. China will pursue its own development in the broader context of a developing Asia. We will work with ASEAN to fully implement the "3+X" cooperation framework, enhance the synergy between the Belt and Road Initiative and ASEAN's development strategies, build the economic belt in the Lancang-Mekong region, and upgrade cooperation with BIMP-EAGA. We will work to advance development at both regional and sub-regional levels to bolster regional competitiveness and deliver a more fulfilling and happy life for our peoples.
China is committed to be your partner for peace. China advocates a new vision of common, comprehensive, cooperative and sustainable security. We are ready to work with countries in the region to build an ASEAN-centered, open and inclusive security architecture in the Asia Pacific on the basis of international law and rules. China will work with ASEAN countries to preserve the positive trend in the South China Sea, properly manage differences through amicable dialogue and steadily advance COC consultations to build the South China Sea into a sea of peace, friendship and cooperation.
China is committed to be your partner for greater openness and win-win progress. Both China and ASEAN countries have benefited from free trade, and it is hence in our common interests to uphold multilateralism and the international trading system. China is ready to work with ASEAN to reach early conclusion of the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP), build toward the East Asia economic community and promote trade and investment liberalization and facilitation to inject positive energy into the world economy.
China is committed to be your partner for entrepreneurship and innovation. Innovation is the primary engine for development. This year is the China-ASEAN Innovation Year, which dovetails with the ASEAN theme of "Resilience and Innovation". China will work with ASEAN to seize the opportunities in the new round of technological and industrial revolution and synergize our development initiatives in innovation. We are also ready to share the Chinese experience on the Internet Plus model and the massive entrepreneurship and innovation initiative. These efforts will lend fresh impetus to our business cooperation and innovation-driven development.
China is committed to be your partner in promoting inclusiveness and mutual learning. ASEAN offers a good example of different ethnic groups and cultures living side by side with each other. The Five Principles of Peaceful Co-existence China advocates resonates with the ASEAN Way of consensus building and accommodating each other's comfort levels. China will continue to respect the national conditions and development paths of ASEAN countries, and enhance our exchanges in governance, development philosophy, society and culture to jointly foster a spirit of China-ASEAN cooperation characterized by mutual trust, mutual accommodation, mutual benefit and mutual assistance.
Distinguished guests,
There is hope when we dare to dream, and there is a future if we care to share. Let us forge ahead by connecting our dreams and sharing opportunities. Together, we can write a new chapter of China-ASEAN cooperation and bring to the world a new Asian miracle.
Thank you."
"Jakarta, 7 May 2018
Your Excellency Vice President Jusuf Kalla,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
It gives me great pleasure to pay an official visit to Indonesia at the invitation of President Joko Widodo and to meet with business leaders of the two countries. On behalf of the Chinese government, I wish to express warm congratulations on the opening of the business summit. I would also like to pay tribute to all those who have long worked for the friendship and cooperation between China and Indonesia.
Indonesia is a developing country and an emerging market economy carrying significant weight in the world. With sustained fast growth at around 5% in recent years, Indonesia, the Emerald of the Equator, is shining ever more brightly.
China highly values its relations with Indonesia. During President Xi Jinping's visit to Indonesia in 2013, the two sides reached broad, important agreement and charted a course for the development of China-Indonesia relations. I consider myself a friend of the Indonesian people. I am glad to make this country the first stop of my first overseas visit in my new term as Chinese Premier.
With the joint efforts of both sides, our bilateral relations have embarked on a fast lane of growth. Business cooperation has been the most vibrant and productive component of overall relations. China has been Indonesia's biggest trading partner for seven years. Two-way trade registered a year-on-year growth of 28% in the first quarter of this year, and has been moving toward greater balance. China is also a major source of foreign direct investment (FDI) in Indonesia. Chinese FDI rose more than 30% last year and investment stock exceeded 10 billion US dollars.
Solid progress is being made in flagship infrastructure projects, such as the Jakarta-Bandung high-speed rail. I'm glad to note that our joint project, the Surabaya-Madura Bridge, which I visited ten years ago when it was still under construction, has become a symbol of development and prosperity of the local people. The two countries have also enjoyed close people-to-people exchange. China is the biggest source of foreign visitors in Indonesia. Last year alone saw over two million visits by the Chinese to Indonesia.
Our fast-growing friendship and cooperation have delivered tangible benefits to the two peoples, and have given a strong boost to our development. Our partnership, which rests on solid complementarity and is win-win in nature, is well-positioned to be stable, resilient and lasting in the context of a changing international environment.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Cementing the good momentum of our bilateral relations and taking practical cooperation to a new high - this is what I have come to Indonesia for. I had productive talks with President Joko Widodo this morning and reached new consensus in the following areas on China-Indonesia cooperation.
First, our two countries will forge greater synergy between our development strategies. We will work to sign an MOU on cooperation between the Belt and Road initiative and the Global Maritime Fulcrum as soon as possible, and identify a number of demonstrative projects in this area. We will work together to upgrade cooperation in textile, automobiles, electronics, chemicals, food and beverage, among others. Under the China-ASEAN Innovation Year in 2018, our two countries will enhance the complementarity of our innovation initiatives by expanding cooperation on the digital economy, green economy, ocean economy and sharing economy to raise our innovation capacity.
China is ready to work with Indonesia and other ASEAN countries concerned to build a "4+1" framework comprising BIMP-EAGA countries and China as a new platform for sub-regional cooperation, which will help to advance ASEAN integration.
Second, our two countries will promote trade and investment liberalization and facilitation, especially so when economic globalization is encountering the headwinds of rising protectionism and unilateralism. Both China and Indonesia believe in globalization and free trade. We both support the rules-based multilateral trading regime and stand for equal consultation in settling trade disputes. China does not go after trade surpluses. Last year saw Indonesia's deficit with China decrease by 42% over the previous year, and bilateral trade achieved overall balance in the first quarter of this year.
China is ready to buy more competitive goods from Indonesia, including commodities like palm oil, oil and gas, rubber and agricultural products such as coffee, cubilose and fruits. We also hope Indonesia will lift its import restrictions on Chinese fruits and vegetables. The two sides have agreed to enhance cooperation on customs, inspection and quarantine, and mutual recognition of QC certification to improve trade facilitation. The two sides have also agreed to boost cross-border e-commerce to facilitate the cooperation between our small and medium-sized enterprises. In a word, we aim to raise our bilateral trade to a new level with joint efforts.
Third, our two countries will expand investment and industrial capacity cooperation. China supports Chinese companies in participating in the development of Indonesia's regional economic corridors and engaging in infrastructure cooperation on railway, roads, airports, ports, bridges and telecommunications. We will encourage Chinese financial institutions to provide financing support for our cooperation projects in line with market principles. We hope Indonesia will provide policy support and visa convenience for the delivery of those projects. Indonesia is also welcome to open an investment promotion center in China.
Fourth, our two countries will strengthen people-to-people engagement. China is committed to extensive exchanges and cooperation with Indonesia on education, culture, tourism, media and sports to entrench the ideas of peace, friendship and cooperation among our peoples. The two sides have agreed to deepen tourism cooperation. We will open more direct flights and work toward the goal of three million mutual visits annually. We will provide more government scholarships and kick off a new five-year plan of youth exchange to boost the interactions between our young people. China supports Indonesia in hosting the 18th Asian Games this year and wishes your country full success in doing so.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Let me talk briefly about the Chinese economy as this may be of interest to many of the business leaders here. In the past five years, China's economy kept a medium-high growth rate of 7.1% annually on average. In 2017, China's GDP reached 82 trillion RMB yuan. More than 66 million urban jobs were created in the past five years. The share of the services sector in total GDP rose to 51.6%, indicating an improved economic structure. The Chinese economy has contributed over 30% to global growth on an average annual basis.
In the first quarter of this year, GDP grew by 6.8% year-on-year, and an average of 15,000 new businesses were registered every day. The Purchasing Managers' Index, at 51.4% in April, pointed to continued expansion of the overall economy. In the first four months this year, freight volume and electricity consumption increased by 6.3% and 10.1% respectively; tax revenue registered an over 16% growth .
All these figures show that the Chinese economy has continued its good momentum of steady growth. Major international economic organizations recently made another upward revision of China's growth forecasts in 2018. As the economy continues to grow, living standards have improved significantly. In the past five years, an average of 13.2 million jobs were created in urban areas annually, and 13.7 million people were lifted out of poverty every year thanks to the policies of spurring local industrial growth and relocating impoverished people from inhospitable areas.
This year China celebrates the 40th anniversary of reform and opening-up. Reform has been a key contributor to the sustained and rapid growth of my country over the past four decades. Looking forward, China will make even greater efforts to see the reform through. We have drawn up an overarching plan on comprehensively deepening reform. One priority is to foster a world-class business environment. We will transform government functions at a faster pace, reduce government-imposed transaction cost, and work to unlock market vitality and public creativity.
To ease the burden on market entities, this year, we will further slash taxes and fees on top of the over 3 trillion yuan cuts in the past five years. We will pursue greater opening-up in both goods and services. We will implement more proactive import policies and lower import tariffs on automobiles, certain drugs and everyday consumer goods. We will strengthen IPR protection, and render the same treatment and foster a level playing field for Chinese and foreign enterprises alike. We welcome foreign investment in China and encourage well-established Chinese businesses to invest overseas for win-win outcomes.
A more open and prosperous China will offer more opportunities to the development of Indonesia and other countries. I trust that far-sighted and ambitious business leaders from Indonesia will seize these opportunities and benefit even more from China's development dividend.
Thank you."
"The First Session of the 13th National People's Congress held a press conference on 20 March 2018. Premier Li Keqiang met with Chinese and foreign reporters and answered their questions at the invitation of Mr. Zhang Yesui, Spokesperson for the NPC session. The press conference was also attended by Vice Premiers Han Zheng, Sun Chunlan, Hu Chunhua and Liu He.
Premier Li Keqiang presented the newly-appointed vice premiers and thanked members of the media. He then opened the floor to questions.
Bloomberg:
This year is the 40th anniversary of China's reform and opening. Over those 40 years, China has enjoyed unprecedented economic growth and hundreds of millions of people have been pulled out of poverty. But it's becoming increasingly clear that China is entering a new era, where problems are going to become more complicated and the model of reform and opening is also changing, highlighted by the restructuring of the government departments and the revisions of the Constitution that were passed by the National People's Congress this year. I wanted to ask you what will the biggest difference be between reform and opening in this new era versus the past, especially when it comes to foreign investment and trade?
Premier Li:
Opening-up has been instrumental to China's economic and social transformation in the past 40 years. It has driven China's reform agenda, promoted its development and delivered real benefits to the Chinese people. In his speech at the World Economic Forum annual meeting in Davos last year, President Xi Jinping reaffirmed China's commitment to uphold free trade and pursue opening-up as a fundamental policy. If there's anything that's going to be different from the past, it will be that China will open even wider to the world. With the Chinese economy so integrated into the global economy, closing China's door will only hinder our own progress.
China will continue to open up; indeed, there is still broad space to do so. China's import tariffs are at the medium level internationally. We are committed to bringing them down still further, particularly for high-demand consumer goods. For instance, we aim to adopt zero tariff for the much needed anti-cancer drugs.
On the other hand, China runs a deficit in trade in services. Further opening of the services sector will entail a cost, but it will make the sector more competitive. We plan to widen access to elderly care, health care, education and financial services. We will ease or lift the cap on foreign ownership in some sectors. We will also make the manufacturing sector fully open. There will be no mandatory requirement for technology transfer, and intellectual property rights will be protected.
The negative list for inbound investment will be shortened and access continuously widened this year and in the coming years. We aim to merge the three laws governing foreign investment into one law, and fully honor our commitment to foreign investors of pre-establishment national treatment.
As for your question about how the constitutional amendment and institutional reform is going to impact China's opening-up, now that both proposals have been adopted at the NPC session, we will faithfully observe the amended Constitution and follow through on institutional reform. This will only reinforce our commitment to the fundamental policy of opening-up.
I can see from some media reports that opinions are divided on market openness in China. Let me make this clear. Our goal is to gradually create a level playing field in a market of 1.3 billion consumers for both Chinese and foreign-invested enterprises of all types of ownership.
This will provide Chinese consumers with more options and stimulate the upgrading of Chinese products and services and that of the overall economy. This said, China's opening-up will be an incremental process. Yet, what may look like a modest step can sometimes yield enormous benefits. For example, five years ago we simplified the procedure for getting passports and traveling overseas. As a result, the number of outbound trips made by Chinese citizens surged from 70 million to 130 million last year, most of them being visits for tourism and shopping. In making sense of China's opening-up, one needs to pay attention to the concrete steps in specific areas, but more importantly take a panoramic and long-term view. I also want to emphasize that opening needs to work both ways. It's like rowing a boat: if only one of the two oars people is giving it their best, the boat will just keep turning on the spot. They'll only move forward if both are working in the same direction.
China Daily:
During this year's "Two Sessions", some delegates expressed the view that the government should pursue the reform of its own functions with the same determination as in pursuing GDP growth in the past. At the same time, we have also heard some complaints suggesting that the government-imposed transaction cost in China remains high, and it is still difficult for the people to get things done. So I would like to ask you, Mr. Premier, what more steps will the new government take to streamline administration and delegate powers? And what will the government do to enhance compliance oversight? Are there any specific goals in this area?
Premier Li:
You asked a very important question. The transformation of government functions was high on the agenda during our first term. We saw the effort to streamline administration, delegate powers, and improve compliance oversight and government services as pivotal to getting the relationship between the government and the market right, which will further stimulate market vitality and public creativity. I'm happy to say that our efforts have paid off, and these measures have become an effective means for further reforming government functions and for unleashing and developing the productive forces.
In my discussions with them during this year's "Two Sessions", many delegates raised the hope that in pursuing supply-side structural reforms, the government will focus more on improving the business environment and making it easier for people to get things done. These voices represent the high expectation of market entities and our people for further reforms. The issues they raise may seem small, yet they bear on major policy decisions. We must heed this call by tackling the root of the problems and pushing for breakthroughs in areas most closely related to the market and to the lives of our citizens.
As we say in Chinese, every single detail counts in the accomplishment of big tasks. Going forward, these are the 6 things we plan to do. We'll cut the time it takes for opening a business by another half; we will reduce the time required for reviewing a project application by another half; we will put in place, at the national level, an e-platform for accessing government services; we will work to see that our people can get things done in one office, without the need for a second trip; and we will ensure that any requirement for certification that has no basis in law or regulations will be abolished.
Thanks to our efforts in recent years, we have significantly cut the time required for opening a business in our country. But it still takes 22 days on average, whereas it takes maybe less than a day in a developed country. And it takes even longer for one to get a construction permit in China. So with regulatory streamlining and further tax and fee cuts, we are making profound adjustments to government functions. This is like moving the government's own cheese.
Any regulatory streamlining can only serve its purpose when supported with enhanced compliance oversight, which helps to enforce market order. All acts of malpractice involving cheating, making or selling fake or substandard goods, or running unlawful monopolies, will be dealt with in strict accordance with the law and banned from the marketplace, as they are the enemy of fairness and innovation and go against social ethics.
We believe that a vibrant market and care for the people should go hand in hand. Compliance oversight should not cause undue inconveniences to average citizens. In this round of government institutional reform, for example, we have decided to merge the various market regulatory bodies in order to slim down the ranks of officials who deal with market entities on a daily basis and exercise unified law enforcement.
The first reporter who asked a question mentioned government institutional reform. One part of it is to combine the state and local tax offices at and below the provincial-level. This actually reminds me of a recent discussion I had with a group of scholars. One of these experts had been doing some local research, and discovered that if you sit and eat in a restaurant, the local tax office collects business tax. But if you order takeaway, the state tax office collects VAT. So he asked a tax officer: what if I stand and eat in the doorway of the restaurant? Who collects the tax then? The officer replied, "That's just nitpicking for the sake of it." But actually it's true that this kind of problem exists.
In recent years as you may know, we have introduced the reform to replace business tax with value added tax. This has enabled the sharing of tax revenues and provided the foundation for the merging of tax authorities at the central and local levels to avoid duplications that burden businesses. So all in all, our regulatory rollback and compliance oversight will contribute to a more energized market and the creation of a level playing field. I should also add that vested interests will be dealt with in the enhanced compliance oversight process.
Nothing is too small for us to do if it delivers concrete benefits to our people. The ultimate purpose of all reform measures and endeavors of the government is to serve the common good, be results-oriented, and benefit the people. In this regard, the government will further reform itself to foster a better business environment for market players, and make it easier for our people to access government services. In so doing, this government will rise up to all challenges and press ahead against all odds.
Yonhap News:
There have been significant developments on the Korean Peninsula recently, with an inter-Korean summit planned for next month, the DPRK indicating willingness to denuclearize, and the US President agreeing to meet with the North Korean leader. Under such circumstances, I would like to ask, Mr. Premier, what does China expect from the settlement of the Korean nuclear issue and what role is China prepared to play to this end? Will China push forward the Six-Party Talks to resolve the nuclear issue?
Premier Li:
We welcome the recent deescalation of tensions on the Korean Peninsula. China supports all efforts that are conducive to the resolution of the Korean nuclear issue through dialogue and negotiation. China will continue to do all it can to take forward the denuclearization process and uphold peace and stability on the Korean Peninsula. We hope that all parties will show sincerity and take concrete actions to get the nuclear issue back to the track of negotiation and strive for new progress towards denuclearization and peace and stability on the Korean Peninsula. We believe this serves the interests of all parties and the world at large.
The Korean Peninsula is in China's close neighborhood. China's own interests are at stake. So you can well imagine how concerned we are with the situation there.
CCTV:
We have seen cases of private business people who are reluctant to make new investments out of concern for the safety of their property. Some are even trying to transfer their assets overseas. We have also heard complaints from private businessmen about the inaction or arbitrary behaviors on the part of some government officials. Premier Li, what will your government do to resolve this problem?
Premier Li:
Since reform and opening-up, we have remained committed to unswervingly consolidating and developing the public sector and unswervingly supporting and developing the non-public sector. It is fair to say that businesses of all types of ownership, private as well as state-owned, have made important contributions to the historic progress of the Chinese economy in the past few decades. Nowadays, private businesses account for about half of the tax revenues. They also contribute 80% to employment and create 90% of new urban jobs. It's true that private investment has been less than robust due to factors such as the weak protection of property rights. We are paying high attention to addressing this issue.
Protecting property rights is the cornerstone of our socialist market economy and is crucial to the nurturing of the productive forces. Hence it has been a high-priority item on the government agenda, and every effort has been made to tackle the problems our people have encountered in this area. For example, at last year's press conference I was asked about the potential effect of the expiration of land use rights for residential homes. I responded by pledging automatic renewal of the rights and the protection of all such transactions. I also called for amending the relevant law to reflect this policy. Since then, we have also reaffirmed the extension of the current rural land contracts by another 30 years. These are examples of our efforts to protect property rights through means of law, which is a good indication of our commitment to the rule of law.
Let me emphasize that contracts must be honored and not treated as scrap paper. Continuity is essential to good governance. New officials must not be allowed to disavow obligations undertaken by their predecessors; those who have done so will be duly punished. Last year, some property rights cases which were poorly adjudicated were redressed. These actions are meant to send a signal to the society of our resolve to ensure that all property owners and investors, regardless of the type of ownership, will have peace of mind as long as they operate within the confines of the law.
Lianhe Zaobao of Singapore:
With China's economic rise, some critics have been saying that China is increasingly using its money and market as political tools to try to influence other countries' foreign policies or make some sort of political infiltration. How would you respond to that? Should the world feel worried about China's rise and its strategic expansion?
Premier Li:
In recent years, China's economic growth has contributed some thirty percent to global growth. This has been conducive not only to global economic recovery but also to world peace. More trade and more cooperation mean more negotiations, and that helps to keep conflicts away. The Chinese believe that one must not do to others what one does not like to be done to himself. We always value peace. We are resolute in upholding China's territorial integrity and will never give up a single inch of our own territory. In a similar vein, we will not take or occupy an inch of others' land. What we pursue is a road of peaceful development.
Our development so far has been achieved in a peaceful international environment. Going forward, a peaceful international environment remains what China needs for attaining modernization. Let me emphasize two points:
One, China will not seek expansion. As a developing country, China has no intention of pursuing expansion. Even if it grows stronger in the future, its development will continue to defy the logic which predestines a rising country to hegemony. What China wants is to develop relations with all other countries and regions on the basis of mutual respect, equality and mutual benefit. Together, we can build a community with a shared future for mankind.
China's business cooperation with other countries follows market principles and business rules. In pursuing the Belt and Road Initiative, we have sought shared benefits through consultation and collaboration. China's assistance within its capacity to some other developing countries, especially underdeveloped countries, has never come with political strings. It has nothing to do with political influence. In some areas, the international community may want China to assume a greater role. Well, China is ready to fulfill its due international responsibilities commensurate with its status as a major developing country. Yet, it would be a misunderstanding to see China playing such a role as seeking strategic expansion.
My second point is that we will continue to focus on managing China's own affairs well. As Chinese Premier, I am fully aware that my country is still confronted with many difficulties and challenges, including many pressing livelihood issues. We in the government must deal with these challenges on a daily basis. We travel and make friends around the world in order to foster a peaceful and stable environment, internationally and in our neighborhood, and create more win-win opportunities for China's development. We know clearly this is what we should continue to do.
People's Daily:
Mr. Premier, in your government work report you said that fairer and fuller employment should always be a highlight of high quality development in China. At the same time, however, college graduates, laid-off workers from cutting overcapacity and demobilized military personnel continue to face difficulty in getting jobs, which means daunting challenges in ensuring employment in the next five years. What do you plan to do to tackle this problem?
Premier Li:
Whether the government is doing a good job in employment is best judged by our people. I don't think anyone would be able to cover it up if we fall short on job creation. Let me first address what we plan to do on the employment front this year, as this year's performance will be a good indicator of what is to come in the next five years.
In recent years, with the Chinese economy operating within a proper range, some 60 million new urban jobs have been generated, ensuring relatively full employment in China. This has been a big achievement. Employment is of paramount importance for each and every family, and nothing is more depressing for it than zero employment of its members. A college graduate would not have a future if graduation means joblessness. We must put ourselves in their shoes. Governments at all levels must always put job creation high on their priority list. In this year's government work report, for the first time, we incorporated surveyed urban unemployment as a projected target, to better reflect the employment situation in both urban and rural areas. This is the government putting pressure on itself.
In urban areas, we expect to see some 15 to 16 million new entrants to the job market this year. Our minimum target is to generate another 11 million new jobs and we will work towards the goal of 13 million in actual practice. We have been able to do that in the past several years and there's no reason for us not to hit that mark this year. Moreover, we have some 280 million rural migrant workers. They have worked hard to pave roads and build skyscrapers in the cities, making great contribution to China's development. Getting migrant workers employed is an important part of China's urbanization process and a big source of their income. This year, we expect to see some three to four million rural migrant workers coming to the cities, the government must endeavor to fulfill its responsibility in providing job opportunities for these people.
This year, there will be 8.2 million college graduates, another record high number, and five million graduates from secondary vocational schools. In addition, there will be some one million demobilized military personnel and workers laid off in the cutting of overcapacity. We must make every effort to ensure their employment. In particular, there should be no zero employment families. We must also explore new channels for creating jobs, not least by fostering new growth drivers, which have a proven track record of job creation in the past few years. Fairly full employment will also be a major wealth generator. Just imagine, how much wealth will be created by China's 800 million-strong labor force out of its 1.3 billion population. This will also offer a huge opportunity for international markets.
NBC News:
Premier Li, there is increasing concern that China will displace the United States as the world's leader and a lot of talk about a trade war as punishment for what critics describe as unfair trading, industrial policies over an authoritarian, state-led economic model of China. So Mr. Premier, in your view, what measures can be taken to address America's concerns and prevent a trade war? Do you still believe that dialogue can resolve what looks like an imminent threat? And what can China do in the event of a trade war? Would you, for example, use China's vast foreign exchange reserves and massive holding of American debt? Thank you.
Premier Li:
Indeed, there has been much talk about an emerging trade war between China and the United States recently. We believe a trade war does nobody any good. No one will emerge a winner from a trade war. War is essentially the antithesis of trade, and trade disputes should be resolved through negotiation, consultation and dialogue. What we hope is that cool heads and rational actions will prevail instead of emotions or impulses holding sway. A trade war should best be avoided.
Last year, China-US trade reached 580 billion US dollars. This is achieved through observing business rules and market principles. Otherwise, such a big volume of trade would be unthinkable. A large trade deficit, either with the United States or any other country, is not what China goes after. We want to see a basically balanced trade. Otherwise, it would not be sustainable.
Just now I listed some further steps of opening-up China is going to take covering services, manufacturing and products. US businesses may well seize these opportunities. At the same time, we hope the United States will ease restrictions on exporting high-tech and high value-added goods to China. The associated intellectual property rights will be fully protected. We hope this important measure for balancing China-US trade will not be passed over. Otherwise a good opportunity would be missed.
China has vast foreign exchange reserves. We have been making diversified investments of these reserves on the basis of market principles, and China will remain a responsible long-term investor. The relationship between China and the United States is one between the world's largest developing country and largest developed country. Our economies are highly complementary. A stable China-US relationship is in the interest of both countries and the whole world. Any worry about China's greater development is unnecessary.
China News Service:
Mr. Premier, we have noticed that recently some mandatory steps have been taken against certain Chinese insurance and financial companies. Will this happen again in the future? Does this mean that new risks are building in China? And will they set off systemic financial risks?
Premier Li:
Let me make it very clear as a person who holds responsibility in this area: China has the capability to forestall systemic financial risks and I do not foresee such risks. This is because the fundamentals of China's economy remain strong, and its financial system is in good shape. That said, as China's GDP exceeds 80 trillion yuan with 250 trillion yuan of assets in the banking sector, our financial system is not risk free.
Just as a proverb goes, gathering clouds may bring rain and tall trees catch the wind. I recall that at the press conference a couple of years ago, I pointed out that both the capital adequacy ratio and provision coverage ratio of Chinese commercial banks are fairly high and above international standards. Let me add here that the required reserve ratio stands at about 15 percent, which is equivalent to us having some 20 trillion yuan stashed away against risks.
This year, we have taken the initiative to cut the budget deficit to GDP ratio, supported by the sustained momentum of steady growth and higher than expected tax revenues. Last year, the central government had a surplus revenue of 250 billion yuan, and we have yet to dig into that amount of money. The first two months of this year saw a double digit increase in China's fiscal revenues. So we are confident about meeting all the major economic and social development targets this year.
Going forward, we plan to further cut the deficit ratio. But this does not mean we will change our proactive fiscal policy, for this year will see considerable increase in the fiscal spending relative to last year. Our ability to cut the deficit ratio shows our confidence in the health of our economy and is also meant to make provisions for global uncertainties and emerging risks at home.
True, some serious irregularities and evasion of regulation in the financial sector have occurred. The relevant authorities have taken resolute measures to deal with the pockets of risks to prevent them from further spreading. When a blister needs bursting, it should be burst. Otherwise, a small problem may escalate and entail moral hazards. In dealing with these cases, we have taken care to protect the lawful rights and interests of our consumers, and have gained further experience in this area. We will continue to resolutely tackle such cases should they arise in the future.
In this round of institutional reform, we have decided to merge the insurance and banking regulatory bodies to plug possible loopholes. At the same time we do face another old problem of illegal fund raising. The government will keep up the fight against such illegal activities. I would also like to advise all investors not to buy into the lies of those illegal fundraisers who'd have you believe a bamboo basket will hold a gallon of water.
RIA Novosti:
Mr. Premier, two years ago I asked you at the press conference about the China-Russia relationship being close politically but lukewarm economically. It seems that this is still how some people would describe the China-Russia relationship today. Russia just held its presidential election and will soon form a new government. As Chinese Premier at the start of a new term, what actions do you hope the new Russian government will take to enhance the business ties between the two countries, and what will the Chinese government do? What political message would you like to convey to Russia?
Premier Li:
On the evening of the 19th, President Xi Jinping and President Putin had a telephone conversation and President Xi congratulated his Russian counterpart on his re-election. Recent years did see a slide in China-Russia trade because of the changing landscape of global trade and the downturn in commodity prices. However, that slide was reversed last year and our trade registered an over 20% growth year on year. Between our two large economies, trade now exceeds US$80 billion. I believe there is still much untapped potential in China-Russia trade. We can work together to bump it up to, say, US$100 billion, by exploring new mechanisms and unlocking potential. What I would like to say to the Russian people is that China and Russia are each other's biggest neighbors. The steady growth of the comprehensive strategic partnership of coordination between China and Russia serves the interests of both countries and the world at large.
EBC of Taiwan:
In recent years, due to various reasons, cross-Strait relations have encountered some serious challenges with uncertain prospects. My question is, under such circumstances, what will the mainland do to uphold the peaceful development of cross-Strait relations and promote the well-being of people on both sides?
Premier Li:
The peaceful development of cross-Strait relations serves the well-being of people on both sides of the Taiwan Strait, and we will continue to go down this path. We have been working on ways to ensure that our fellow countrymen and women from Taiwan will enjoy the same treatment as mainlanders when they come to work, live or study on the mainland, because we are members of the same family, and we both belong to one and the same China. That said, any attempt, proposition or activity for "Taiwan independence" must not be tolerated, and we must not allow any external forces to play "the Taiwan card" to cause difficulties for people on both sides of the Taiwan Strait and for cross-Strait relations. We are willing to have dialogue and consultation with all political parties and groups on Taiwan which subscribe to the one-China principle to discuss all issues that concern people on both sides. We should work together to uphold the peaceful development of cross-Strait relations and eventually achieve China's peaceful reunification. We believe herein lies the fundamental interests of our nation.
Guangming Daily:
Mr. Premier, the reform of China's healthcare system has made good strides in recent years, but often a major illness can still land a family in severe difficulty. What steps will the new government take to address the problem of illness-induced poverty?
Premier Li: In the past few years, we have made enormous efforts to improve the basic health insurance system. A medical insurance safety net, the largest of its kind in the world, has been put in place to treat both minor and serious illnesses. This being said, some families living in poverty or those who have difficulty accessing quality medical resources do face the kind of problems that you mentioned. A lot of such cases are reported in the new media.
China is a vast country; we still have some thirty million people living in poverty. The Party Central Committee with Comrade Xi Jinping at its core gives high priority to poverty eradication and has made the pledge of winning the fight against poverty. Among the impoverished population, many are pushed or have fallen back into poverty because of a serious disease. The government, while improving the basic healthcare system, has given greater attention to the treatment of serious diseases. We have adopted some innovative measures; for example, we have complemented basic health insurance with commercial insurance schemes. By harnessing the law of large numbers, such an arrangement has produced an amplifying effect of the insurance funds and extended the coverage of serious disease insurance to 17 million people last year.
This year, we plan to do more. We will raise central government subsidies for basic medical insurance schemes, and half of the increase will go to serious disease insurance. Our aim is to cover at least 20 million people and more types of serious diseases in the insurance program. What's more, we will encourage the development of telemedicine and healthcare consortiums to make quality medical resources more accessible at the community level.
During my inspection trip on the eve of this past Spring Festival, I dropped in on a poor family and met an elderly woman there who was seriously ill. Although she had insurance coverage, the family still found the treatment unaffordable. Their plight is still vivid in my memory. A Chinese saying compares a major illness to a mountain falling down. When such an illness strikes, it is our hope that the family will still find protection. That's the very purpose of us having major illness insurance program and other similar mechanisms.
TBS:
This year marks the 40th anniversary of the China-Japan Peace and Friendship Treaty. Mr. Premier, when you met Foreign Minister Kōno in January, you have said the relationship is warming up but there are still some cold parts left. If so, what more should both sides do for the relationship to fully recover? And in the upcoming occasion of trilateral summit including South Korea, would you intend to accept the invitation for your first official visit to Japan and will that be the start of the reciprocal visits by the two countries' leaders?
Premier Li:
We have seen signs of improvement in China-Japan relations lately. Prime Minister Abe has invited me on several occasions to visit Japan. In an atmosphere of continuously improving ties, I would be ready to positively consider paying an official visit to Japan while attending the China-Japan-ROK Leaders' Meeting there in the first half of this year.
Improvement of China-Japan relations requires not just the right atmosphere, but also vision and commitment. Exchange of visits at the leadership level will help get this relationship back on the track of steady development, but we must look to consolidate the foundation of China-Japan relations rather than just make a one-time deal. There needs to be sustained, steady progress of this relationship. This year marks the 40th anniversary of the China-Japan Treaty of Peace and Friendship. It's important to honor the spirit and the consensus reached in the four Sino-Japanese political documents including the Treaty of Peace and Friendship. If we have seen a spring in China-Japan relationship, we must also watch out for any possible return of chills. We need to work together for the sustained, steady development of this relationship. That is what is expected of Japan.
Xinhua News Agency:
The Internet Plus model has been widely used in recent years and there is a boom in the sharing economy. Meanwhile, in this process some problems have cropped up, and their development may face some hurdles in the future. How do you see the situation, Mr. Premier? And what will the government do to promote further development of the Internet Plus model?
Premier Li:
In recent years the Internet Plus model has played an important role in promoting the steady growth of China's economy, like a new sail being installed on the big ship riding the wave of a new round of global technological revolution. Transformed government functions have helped to energize the market. Consumption has become the biggest driver of China's development, and there has been a fundamental change in China's economic structure. All this interconnected progress, together with the new drivers, has enabled the Chinese economy to defy repeated predictions of a hard landing and sustain a sound momentum of economic growth.
The Internet Plus model has not just fostered new drivers of growth, but also provided the largest platform for the sharing economy, giving opportunity for our people to pursue their own entrepreneurship and make innovations. It has made a big difference in China's economic and social development and profoundly changed the way we work and live. In this context, technological professionals, business people or the average person can all tap into their unique potential and have the opportunities to prove their talents.
As a new phenomenon, the Internet Plus may also have its own problems. In this process, we need to maximize its benefits while taking care to address its possible downsides. In exercising regulation over new things, we believe the government needs to adopt a prudent yet accommodative approach. We should neither shut them down once problems occur, which would be the easier thing to do, nor allow the Internet Plus model to become a hotbed for cheating and manipulation. We should guard against both of these risks.
As the next step, we will adopt more measures to encourage the growth of this model. For example, Chinese internet companies tend to get listed overseas. What we plan to do is to improve the conditions for them to return to the mainland markets. We will also create conditions in keeping with the law for our mainland high-tech or innovation companies to get listed on the mainland markets. We need to further develop the Internet Plus model by applying smart technologies to education, health care, government services and other services sectors to promote fast and sound growth of the digital economy and the sharing economy. We need to both follow existing patterns and think out of the box in developing these models.
Phoenix TV of Hong Kong:
Mr. Premier, in your government work report this year, you said efforts will be made to develop the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area, support Hong Kong and Macao in integrating their own development into overall national development and further enhance the mutually beneficial cooperation between the mainland and these two regions. But some people in Hong Kong feel somewhat worried whether this will undercut Hong Kong's unique role, or affect the implementation of "one country, two systems", or even blur the line between the two systems. How would you respond to that?
Premier Li:
We want to build the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area into a world-class city cluster with the three places drawing upon each other's comparative strengths; otherwise this Greater Bay Area would not be competitive internationally. The outline for the development program is being formulated and will be adopted for implementation. For people from Hong Kong and Macao who come to work or live on the mainland, especially in Guangdong, we will gradually introduce the same treatment for them as mainlanders in terms of housing, education and transportation, among others. We would also like to share such opportunities with people from Taiwan.
We encourage Hong Kong and Macao to integrate their own development into overall national development. In this process, we will continue to observe the principle of "one country, two systems" under which the people of Hong Kong administer Hong Kong, the people of Macao administer Macao, and both regions enjoy a high degree of autonomy. As there can be mutually beneficial cooperation and common development between different countries, there is even more reason for the three places which belong to one and the same country to do so. Under the guidance of the "one country, two systems" principle, we are confident that these three areas will draw upon each other's strengths and work together in building a new and strong region of vibrant growth.
China Radio International:
Mr. Premier, given the aging of the Chinese population, quality and inexpensive old-age care is woefully lacking. It was also reported last year that a Chinese province ran behind its pension payouts, raising concerns about similar problem in other provinces. How should this problem be addressed and what will the government do to ensure adequate old-age support for the over 200 million senior citizens in China?
Premier Li:
It's already lunch time, and your question is also about a livelihood issue. We must ensure that old-age pensions will be paid in full and on time. The problem that you described did happen in certain provinces last year. I made a point of raising the issue of pension payouts each time I visit old industrial bases or hold discussions with the delegates during this year's Two Sessions. The difficulties that some provinces face are mainly due to the decline in their fiscal revenues at the time of local economic downturn. But they have taken multiple steps to address the issue, such as putting to better use state-owned assets or adjusting the structure of government expenditure. The central government has also provided some funding support for this .
Despite the difficulties faced by some provinces, at the national level, we are capable of making pension payment in full and on time. As of the end of last year, the balance of China's pension insurance funds for urban workers stood at over 4.1 trillion yuan, and we had more revenues than expenditures. We also have 1.8 trillion yuan in social security fund as a strategic reserve, which is still increasing. So we are fully capable of ensuring full and timely payment of pension benefits nationwide.
We will continue to pursue reform in this area. This year, we plan to establish a central system of pension fund provisions that can be transferred to provinces in case of need. The initial contribution rate for all provinces will be three percent, which means each province will contribute three percent of their funds to the central provision to be used to fill the shortfalls that some provinces may face. In addition, we will use some of the state-owned asset proceeds to replenish the national social security fund to make it safer and more profitable. These measures will help to deliver stronger old-age support to the senior people in China. We should give people confidence in the future. Think about it, if decades of hard work cannot earn one a decent retirement life, our future generations will lose faith in us.
We should never see senior people as a liability, though. There are still so many things that they can do and a retired life can also offer tremendous business opportunities and turn out to be an important industry. That said, we will never shirk the government's due responsibility in extending adequate old-age support.
Just now the moderator said this is going to be the last question. I recall that previously we also addressed several questions related to people's livelihood. Under the guidance of Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era, we will continue to put people first. The efforts made by a people's government boils down to the purpose of serving our people's well-being and improving their lives. We will continue to take strong measures to ensure people's basic living needs, address their pressing concerns, make more quality resources available, and deliver more concrete benefits to our people.
Chutian Metropolis Daily:
Mr. Premier, how much will the personal income tax threshold be raised?
Premier Li:
We will start the relevant process expeditiously and the procedures will be handled in accordance with law."
"Budapest, 27 November 2017
Prime Minister Orban Viktor,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
It gives me great pleasure to come to the beautiful city of Budapest and join you at the seventh China-CEEC Business Forum. On behalf of the Chinese government, I wish to extend warm congratulations on the opening of the Forum and pay high tribute to the people from various sectors who have devoted to the China-CEEC friendship and cooperation.
"16+1" cooperation, which was jointly launched by China and CEE countries, is a pioneering endeavor of China-Europe friendly cooperation. In 2011, the first China-CEEC Business Forum was held in Budapest, setting "16+1" cooperation in motion. Thanks to the joint efforts of our governments and business communities, we have set up a well-structured framework and expanded the scope of our cooperation with fruitful outcomes. Cumulative investments by Chinese companies in the 16 CEE countries grew from nearly US$3 billion in 2010 to more than US$9 billion in 2016. Two-way trade rose from US$43.9 billion to US$58.7 billion. The CEEC's agricultural exports to China surged more than 300%. And a total of 6,000 plus freight trains have traveled between China and European countries.
A review of this remarkable course of "16+1" cooperation brings us to the following conclusions.
First, being results-oriented is a defining feature of "16+1" cooperation.
More than 200 specific cooperation measures have been rolled out in such key areas as trade, investment, connectivity, industrial capacity, finance, green economy and people-to-people exchange. In particular, several major initiatives have been pursued to leverage the geographical advantage of CEE countries. The Budapest-Belgrade railway, the China-Europe Land Sea Express Line and the Adriatic-Baltic-Black Sea Seaport Cooperation have all made initial progress. At each "16+1" summit, we as leaders would pay special attention to the views and appeals from the business communities and focus on tackling specific difficulties arising from our practical cooperation in an expeditious manner. The fact that the Business Forum has been held on the sidelines of the summit each year is, in itself, a reflection of the results-oriented nature of "16+1" cooperation.
Second, "16+1" cooperation has been a business-led, government-supported and market-driven process.
You, the entrepreneurs, are the sailors on board the big ship of "16+1" cooperation. You play a crucial role in enabling the ship to brave winds and waves. The government's responsibility is to provide overall guidance, build institutions and platforms for cooperation, foster an enabling trade and investment environment by offering necessary policy support, and protect the lawful rights and interests of all companies. Our cooperation projects over the years, be they on industrial capacity or connectivity, have all followed commercial principles and internationally accepted rules. This has helped us to leverage our respective strengths and reap win-win outcomes.
Third, "16+1" cooperation has been an important component of and beneficial complement to the overall China-Europe relationship.
As a platform for trans-regional and practical cooperation, "16+1" cooperation has consistently followed the principle of openness and transparency and has been pursued in the broader context of China-Europe relations and in light of relevant EU laws and regulations. "16+1" cooperation is open to other countries and international organizations, who are welcome to participate in a tripartite format to advance the interests of all. Over the years, we have admitted six observers including the EU and Austria, and proactively engaged the Visegrad Group and other regional cooperation initiatives to open the door of our cooperation ever wider and bring benefits to ever more people. Past progress shows that rather than undercutting Europe's overall interests, "16+1" cooperation has injected positive energy into the European integration process and contributed to the more even development of China-Europe relations.
Fourth, "16+1" cooperation promises broad prospects.
Enjoying a profound traditional friendship and a high level of mutual trust, China and CEE countries view each other as an important cooperation partner. Both our economies show a strong momentum of growth and possess respective comparative strengths in the market, resources, industry, technology and capital. Yet China-CEEC trade now accounts for only 11% of China-Europe trade, and our investment stock a mere 2%. Much potential remains to be tapped. In particular, progress in the building of the Belt and Road Initiative has presented "16+1" cooperation with unprecedented opportunities.
In the past few years, we have been able to identify clear goals, institute the overall framework and lay a solid foundation for "16+1" cooperation. Going forward, we will further expand and upgrade "16+1" cooperation in light of the changing international landscape and the expectations of our business communities by introducing better-targeted policy measures to foster a freer and more open trade and investment environment. With the theme of "deepening economic, trade and financial cooperation for win-win development", this forum aims to boost the twin engines of trade and finance to propel the ship of "16+1" cooperation forward in a steady and sustained way.
–We need to forge greater synergy between the Belt and Road Initiative and the development strategies of CEE countries.
As President Xi Jinping repeatedly underscored during meetings with leaders of CEE countries, "16+1" cooperation should serve as a major gateway in the further implementation of the Belt and Road Initiative in the European economic circle. China will work with CEE countries, in line with the principle of achieving shared growth through consultation and collaboration, to make the CEE region an early beneficiary of the outcomes of the Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation. We need to speed up the building of the Budapest-Belgrade railway and other connectivity projects, work for the sound development of freight train services, expand international industrial capacity cooperation, and jointly build a number of economic and trade cooperation zones, with a view to developing better integrated chains of industry, of value and of logistics with stronger impetus and broader benefits.
–We need to vigorously promote trade and investment liberalization and facilitation.
Cooperation among customs authorities should be enhanced. Enterprises with a track record of compliance will be offered greater facilitation in terms of streamlined customs procedures, lower inspection rate, and speedy customs clearances to speed up logistics operations. In light of the need for a stronger mechanism for communication and coordination on inspection and quarantine, China will streamline inspection and quarantine access procedures to facilitate export of high-quality agricultural products such as meat, dairy products, honey and fruits from CEE countries to China. We will explore the possibility of setting up an e-commerce cooperation mechanism in support of cross-border e-commerce and foster new growth areas in trade.
In 2018, China will host the first China International Import Expo in Shanghai, which is a major initiative and action by China to promote trade liberalization and open up its market to the world. CEEC companies are more than welcome to take part in the Expo, and China will provide you with assistance and facilitation. China encourages the setup of "16+1" economic and trade cooperation demonstration zones in Ningbo and other Chinese cities, which will serve as platforms for strengthening trade and investment cooperation, and a green channel, in particular, for CEEC exports to China. China has rolled out a foreign investment management model nationwide based on pre-establishment national treatment and negative list. We are ready to explore with CEE countries the opening of a green channel for investment cooperation, and hope that CEE countries will provide Chinese investors with conveniences in visa and work permit applications.
–We need to further expand financing channels.
China supports commercial and development financial institutions in financing China-CEE cooperation projects and encourages RMB financing in these projects. We support CEEC companies in issuing Panda bonds in China. The China-CEE Fund launched by the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China in 2016 is well received by all sides as it has expanded the channels for market-based investment and financing. Hereby, I wish to announce two new measures in this area. First, the China-CEEC Inter-Bank Association is officially established today. The China Development Bank will provide two billion euros equivalent development finance facility. Second, the second stage of the China-CEEC Investment Cooperation Fund has been completed with a fresh capitalization of US$1 billion, most of which will be invested in Central and Eastern Europe.
–We need to enhance cooperation among SMEs.
"16+1" cooperation, while encouraging the leading role of large enterprises, should also give full play to the supporting role of SMEs. Hence enterprises of all sizes will be able to forge synergy and grow together. On the sidelines of this Forum, the China-CEEC SMEs Matchmaking Event 2017 will be held, with the participation of around 400 companies. We will set up more cooperation mechanisms and service platforms, and promote the early establishment of a "16+1" SMEs Center to help SMEs to trade with each other and identify cooperation projects.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Let me now give you an update on the development of the Chinese economy as I assume this would be a topic of interest to many of you. In recent years, China has been confronted with a complex international environment and continued downward pressure on its economy. Yet instead of resorting to massive stimulus, we have focused on supply-side structural reform and explored innovative ways for macroeconomic regulation to energize the market and social creativity. Through painstaking efforts, China has embarked on a track of innovation-driven development featuring mutually reinforcing progress between steady growth and structural upgrading as well as faster transformation in the drivers of growth.
From 2013 to 2016, China's economy grew at an average annual rate of 7.2%, contributing 30% to the world economic growth. 52.6 million jobs have been created in urban areas and 55.6 million people have been lifted out of poverty. This has been possible largely due to the vital support by the booming new growth drivers. New market players are emerging in large numbers. In the past three years, an average of 14,000 new companies got registered every day. New industries, new businesses and new models are being created. The digital economy is prospering. Online retail sales have maintained a high growth rate of around 30%. More than 500 million people now use mobile payment, and almost all daily payments in cities can be done through QR code scanning. Green economy is flourishing. Take renewable energy as an example, about 40% of the world's newly installed capacity last year came from China. Sharing economy is fast expanding. Bike sharing, which was non-existent only two or three years ago, has become a thriving business. As of today, over 18 million bikes have hit the road in Chinese cities and they have now been introduced to other countries.
At the same time, thanks to the development of the internet, traditional industries are being upgraded at a faster pace. With revolutionary changes in their organizational structure, R&D mechanism, production model and supply chain, these industries are brimming with new vigor. New growth drivers, which now contribute more than 30% of GDP growth and generate 70% of new urban jobs, are providing an increasingly important underpinning for the economy.
This year, China's economy has maintained steady progress and delivered a better-than-expected performance.
First, macroeconomic indicators are generally sound.
In the first three quarters, GDP grew by 6.9%, up by 0.2 percentage point year on year. Surveyed unemployment rate in major cities was the lowest in several years. From January to October, consumer prices were up by a moderate 1.5%. Import and export reversed the downward trajectory of the past two years. Foreign exchange reserves have been increasing.
Second, the speed and quality of growth are more balanced.
Despite measures adopted this year to cut tax burdens for companies totaling as much as one trillion yuan, fiscal revenue increased by 9.2% in the first ten months. The profits of large industrial enterprises soared by over 20%. Growth of personal incomes continues to outpace GDP growth.
Third, growth has become more sustainable.
In the first three quarters, final consumption contributed 64.5% of economic growth, more than any other factor. The services sector, which now accounts for 52.9% of GDP, takes up more than half of the economy. The bond market, stock market and housing sector have been generally stable. Corporate leverage ratio and NPL ratio of commercial banks have stabilized and shown signs of moderate decline. The RMB exchange rate has remained basically stable. Fiscal and financial risks are by and large under control. Market confidence is building up. Since the beginning of this year, leading international institutions have repeatedly adjusted upward their growth forecasts of the Chinese economy, which is a vote of confidence for China's economic prospects.
The 19th National Congress of the Communist Party of China held last month formulated the blueprint and program of action for China's future development. The Chinese economy has been transitioning from a phase of rapid growth to a stage of high-quality development. We will implement the vision of innovative, coordinated, green, open and shared development, put quality first and give priority to performance, pursue supply-side structural reform as our main task, and work hard to transform the Chinese economy into one of better quality and higher efficiency which is spurred by more robust growth drivers. To this end, we will steadily strengthen our innovation capacity and economic competitiveness and build a modernized economic system. We will remain committed to the basic state policy of opening up, pursue the Belt and Road Initiative as a priority, and give equal emphasis to bringing in foreign investment and making outbound investment. At the same time, we will adopt policies to promote high-standard liberalization and facilitation of trade and investment, significantly ease market access, develop new ways of investing overseas, and form globally-oriented networks of trade, investment and financing, production, and services. All these will help usher in a new phase of all-round opening up for China.
At this stage of high-quality development, China's economy will be driven more by innovation; the consumption and industrial structures will be upgraded faster; and development will be more coordinated between rural and urban areas and among different regions. This means more open markets and greater growth, investment and cooperation opportunities for countries in the CEE region and other parts of the world. In the next 15 years, China is expected to import US$24 trillion worth of goods, attract US$2 trillion of overseas direct investment, and make US$2 trillion of outbound investment and 2 billion outbound tourist visits. I believe that far-sighted and ambitious companies of all countries will make full use of the China-CEEC cooperation platform to get on board the express train of China's development and share in the benefits of growth.
Thank you."
"Budapest, 27 November 2017
Prime Minister Orban Viktor,
Colleagues,
I am delighted to gather with old and new friends here to discuss the way forward for deepening cooperation between China and the Central and Eastern European Countries. On behalf of the Chinese government, let me first thank the Hungarian government and Prime Minister Orban for the excellent arrangements you have made for the summit. I also wish to welcome the European Union, Austria, Switzerland, Greece, Belarus and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development to the summit as observers.
This year marks the fifth anniversary of "16+1" cooperation. Over the past five years, guided by summits such as this and supported by maturing mechanisms, "16+1" cooperation has grown from strength to strength and yielded significant results in various fields. It has developed into an important channel of trans-regional cooperation and an eye-catching platform of open multilateral cooperation.
―
Over the past five years, we have put in place a sound framework and a solid foundation for our cooperation.
Taking a forward-looking approach, we have formulated the
Medium-Term Agenda for Cooperation Between China and Central and Eastern European Countries,
issued six outcome documents, and established over time 20-plus institutional exchange platforms spanning trade, agriculture, health, tourism and at the subnational level. We have put forward several major initiatives, including the Budapest-Belgrade railway, the China-Europe Land-Sea Express Line, the Adriatic-Baltic-Black Sea Seaport Cooperation, and rolled out more than 200 specific measures. Together, these actions form a blueprint for "16+1" cooperation and solidified its foundation.
―
Over the past five years, we have built a strong momentum in our cooperation and reaped a sizable harvest.
The investment by Chinese companies in the 16 CEE countries has increased from US$3 billion to over US$9 billion in cumulative terms. Our trade expanded by 4.3% last year despite lackluster global trade and surged by 14.1% in the first three quarters of this year. From 2012 to 2016, China's imports of agricultural products from CEE countries rose by 13.7% on an average annual basis. A number of flagship infrastructure projects have entered into operation. The China-Europe freight trains made over 6,000 trips, reaching eight cities in four CEE countries. Over the past five years, six direct flights have been opened between the two sides. People-to-people exchange and cooperation has become increasingly dynamic, as evidenced by such popular events as the Year of Promotion of Tourism Cooperation, the Year of People-to-People and Cultural Exchanges and the Year of Media Cooperation between China and CEE countries. All the 16 CEE countries have become approved destinations for Chinese tourists, which has raised the number of visits by Chinese tourists to the region from 280,000 to 930,000. The number of two-way student exchange has doubled.
―
Over the past five years, we have pulled together to address challenges and pursue common development.
The lingering impact of the financial crisis and the difficult and tortuous global recovery have posed serious challenges to the development of China and CEE countries. Nevertheless, we have responded to the uncertainty of the international situation with the stability of "16+1" cooperation and boosted our own development. Over the past five years, China's economy has maintained a medium-high average annual growth of over 7%, while CEE countries have successfully weathered the European debt crisis and registered a growth rate of over 3% in recent years, making it a leading performer in the European economy.
The key to the fast development and vitality of "16+1" cooperation lies in our commitment to the principle of "equal consultation, mutual benefit, openness and inclusiveness, being results-oriented and innovative" in developing our cooperation.
Equal consultation
means we believe countries are all equal regardless of size, and issues should be addressed through discussion among all instead of being dominated by one. We should strive to maximize our common ground, minimize differences, and optimize our role in the cooperation.
Mutual benefit
means that under the principle of government support, corporate initiative and market-based operation and in keeping with international practices, we have leveraged our comparative advantages to make the pie of common interests bigger.
Openness and inclusiveness
means we have worked together in coordination and mutual support and in an open, fair and transparent manner. The comfort levels of all sides have been accommodated. Together, we tap potential by two-way opening, take on challenges with interconnected efforts and seek development through cooperation.
Being results-oriented and innovative
means that with a focus on such key cooperation areas as trade, connectivity, industrial capacity and people-to-people ties, we have taken concrete steps to tackle problems, improve institutions, expand cooperation areas and introduce new policies, injecting sustained impetus into "16+1" cooperation.
Colleagues,
One can only seize the moment when one keenly observes the trend. In the current global context of significant development, change and adjustment, peace and development remains the theme of our times. On the other hand, uncertainties and destabilizing factors still abound. Global economic growth lacks momentum, regional hotspots keep flaring up, and non-traditional security threats including terrorism, the refugee issue and climate change continue to worsen. These common challenges require common responses.
The 19th National Congress of the Communist Party of China held last month underscored China's commitment to peaceful development, to a new form of international relations featuring mutual respect, fairness, justice and win-win cooperation, and to advancing the building of a community with a shared future for mankind.
China firmly supports the European integration process, and respects the European countries' choices of their development paths. As an incubator for trans-regional practical cooperation, "16+1" cooperation is an important component of and beneficial complement to the China-Europe relationship, and will help promote the European integration process and make the development of China-Europe relations more even. China has all along pursued its cooperation with CEE countries in the broader context of China-Europe relations and under the framework of relevant EU laws and regulations. We welcome the participation of countries outside this region in tripartite cooperation under "16+1" framework to achieve more win-win and all-win results.
As "16+1" cooperation enters a new stage of development, it enjoys a more solid foundation, clearer objectives and stronger driving forces. The theme of this year's meeting, "Deepening economic, trade and financial cooperation for win-win development", is highly relevant as it responds to the needs and concerns of all parties. China wishes to put forward the following suggestions for our future work.
First, we need to expand economic and trade cooperation.
Given the pick-up in the world economy and rebound in global trade this year, we must seize the opportunity to advance trade and investment liberalization and facilitation and unlock the potential of our economic cooperation. China is prepared to import more high-quality products from CEE countries such as meat, dairy products, aquatic products, fruits, honey and wine to meet the diverse needs of Chinese consumers and promote balanced growth of two-way trade. During the Summit, China will sign inspection and quarantine protocols with six CEE countries on their alfalfa, bumblebees, honey, animal feed and beef exports to China. We also welcome the active participation of CEE countries in the first-ever China International Import Expo to be held in Shanghai next year. China supports the establishment of "16+1" demonstration zones for economic cooperation and trade in Ningbo and other Chinese cities to serve as platforms for expanding trade and investment cooperation and provide fast tracks for CEE exports to China. We also support the set-up of a "16+1" SMEs Center, a consultative agency on "16+1" investment and trade, and a "16+1" agricultural cooperation demonstration zone in Bulgaria, which will be rolled out to more CEE countries.
Second, we need to enhance connectivity.
Infrastructure development is high on the development agendas of many CEE countries; it is also a priority for "16+1" cooperation. In his meetings with CEE leaders, President Xi Jinping underscored several times the significance of making "16+1" cooperation a springboard for the further implementation of the Belt and Road Initiative in the European economic circle. During this summit, China will sign cooperation agreements with Estonia, Slovenia and Lithuania, thus having all the 16 CEE countries on board for the Belt and Road endeavor. In keeping with the principle of achieving shared growth through consultation and collaboration, China is ready to work with all of you to make the CEE region an early beneficiary of the outcomes of the Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation, and speed up the implementation of key connectivity projects to promote land, maritime, air and cyberspace links. China proposes an early launch of the feasibility study for the extension of the China-Europe Land-Sea Express Line to Austria. China supports holding China-CEEC Customs Cooperation Forum, enhancing exchange of customs database and mutual recognition of supervision decisions, and jointly introducing more customs clearance facilitation measures. China supports the development of trans-Eurasian transport networks through the launch of more China-Europe freight train services and direct flights and the establishment of logistics hubs in the CEE region.
Third, we need to strengthen cooperation on innovation.
To transform and upgrade our industries through innovation is a common goal of China and CEE countries. China suggests that we explore, based on commercial rules, a format for "16+1" industrial parks focusing on key areas such as industrial capacity, energy, logistics and agriculture. Different parks may have different features reflecting the unique industrial strengths of respective countries, so that given time, a network of diverse industrial parks will take shape. China has proposed a "16+1" science and technology partnership program. We support "16+1" Conference on Innovation Cooperation and encourage the establishment of joint labs and science and technology parks as well as personnel exchanges. Businesses from CEE countries are most welcome to take part in the Made in China 2025 initiative. We will also encourage well-established entrepreneurship and innovation demonstration centers in China to cooperate with CEE companies to foster new platforms for innovation-driven development under "16+1" framework.
Fourth, we need to bolster financial support.
Thanks to our joint efforts, multiple financial instruments have been introduced in the past five years, including the US$10 billion special credit line, the China-CEEC framework for investment and financing and the China-CEEC Financial Holding Company, which have provided financing support for deepening "16+1" cooperation. During this summit, two more measures will be introduced. Under the auspices of the China-CEEC Inter-Bank Association to be officially inaugurated today, China Development Bank will provide two billion euros equivalent development finance facility; secondly, the second stage of the China-CEEC Investment Cooperation Fund has been set up with a capitalization of US$1 billion, which will mainly be channeled to the CEE region. In promoting the internationalization of the RMB, China is ready to intensify its financial cooperation with CEE countries, including expanding bilateral currency swaps and local currency settlement. We support companies from CEE countries in issuing Panda bonds in China, and support financial institutions on both sides in conducting RMB financing. We may further explore multiple formats of market-based investment and financing to provide the financial lifeblood necessary for our cooperation.
Fifth, we need to energize people-to-people exchange.
The more vibrant people-to-people exchange, the stronger the popular support for "16+1" cooperation. We are ready to carry out more people-to-people exchange programs with CEE countries that cater to the needs of and bring real benefits to the people. We need to work more closely on tourism to make it easier, safer and more comfortable for our people, who should be able to travel with simplified visa and customs procedures. This will be conducive to the reaching of the goal of two million tourist visits between China and CEE countries by 2020. In the coming year, China will provide 200 free training opportunities on tourism for CEE countries and send around one hundred travel agents and journalists to Central and Eastern Europe to explore travel routes and report on tourist attractions. We support the establishment of a "16+1" cultural coordinating center and a youth development center, encourage the building of more traditional Chinese medicine centers and Chinese herbal plantation bases. Potential cooperation on sports, especially winter sports, and on the protection of women and children will be explored.
To expand educational exchange, China will provide no less than 5,000 government scholarships of all kinds to CEE countries in the coming five years. We should build on the success of the Year of China-CEEC Media Cooperation and follow through on our cooperation on policy exchange, news coverage, co-production and publishing. China proposes designating the year 2018 as the Year of Cooperation between Local Governments and Local Enterprises. We look forward to growing participation in the "16+1" Association of Governors of Provinces and Regions by local governments on both sides to turn it into an all-dimensional platform for more solid and in-depth growth of "16+1" cooperation.
Colleagues,
We have an ancient adage in China, "A pagoda can be piled up with grains of sand, and a mountain can be formed with heaps of stones." Similarly, the renowned Hungarian poet Mihaly Vorosmarty wrote, "Let us, steadfast as ants, set down that which our brains, in the rare inspired hours, create, and when we have assembled every stone, we'll erect the Babel of a newer age." I am sure that when China and CEE countries work with common purposes and an unrelenting spirit, we will write new and brilliant chapters for "16+1" cooperation.
Thank you."
"Manila, 14 November 2017
President Duterte,
Colleagues,
We live in a time of great progress, huge change and major adjustment. Peace and development remain the prevailing trend, yet the world still faces enormous uncertainties and destabilizing factors. World economic recovery remains fragile; economic globalization and regional integration are encountering headwinds; regional hotspots flare up one after another; and non-traditional security threats such as terrorism keep rising. It is against this background that East Asia has emerged as an important engine for global growth and a leading force for international cooperation. This has not come without an effort and must not be taken for granted. The achievement of our region is attributable to the common efforts of regional countries to grow the economy and improve people's lives, to the East Asian cultural traits of mutual accommodation and mutual learning, and to our shared commitment to a harmonious and prosperous Asia.
Peace and stability in East Asia have not come easily and should be cherished. East Asian countries suffered greatly from wars and conflicts in history, thus what our people want the most is peace and stability. Over the years, despite the differences in social system, development stage and basic national conditions, countries in the region have embraced the spirit of seeking common ground while shelving and overcoming differences. We all believe in properly tackling differences and frictions through dialogue and consultation and enhancing good-neighborliness and political mutual trust, and have identified a path of peaceful coexistence with East Asian features. We have all benefited from the hard-won peace and stability in our region, and we must work together to firmly uphold and actively contribute to the peace and stability in our region.
The economic success of East Asia has not come easily and should be further built upon with great vigor. Recent centuries have seen East Asian countries miss too many opportunities for self-enhancement through unity and for national development and rejuvenation. With tremendous efforts, we have found a path of development that suits our own realities and created the East Asian miracle, which increased our weight in the world economic landscape and transformed the destiny of our countries and peoples. We all have the duty to sustain this sound momentum, and meet challenges with mutual help. While pursuing our own interests and development, we also need to accommodate the interests of others and work for common development. This will deliver more benefits to the over two billion people in our region and inject a strong impetus into global growth.
Regional integration in East Asia has not come easily and should be taken forward continuously. In keeping with the trend of economic globalization and regional integration, countries in the region have over the years vigorously pursued trade and investment liberalization and facilitation. An ASEAN-centered regional cooperation architecture with the broad participation of other regional countries has been established. A variety of bilateral and multilateral free trade arrangements have prospered. East Asia now stands as a leading advocate of regional integration. We must uphold this open, inclusive and win-win spirit, follow the trend of the world, pursue opening-up and cooperation at a higher level and work toward an early establishment of an East Asia Economic Community.
Colleagues,
Since its inception 12 years ago, the East Asia Summit has, with its commitment to regional development, security and stability, grown into an important platform for dialogue and cooperation for countries from within and outside the region. We should maintain the nature of the EAS as a "leaders-led strategic forum", uphold ASEAN centrality, and advance economic development and political and security cooperation in parallel, as the two wheels driving EAS forward. We need to keep to the right direction, enhance overall planning and improve institution building to bring about sound and sustained development of the EAS. I wish to make the following six-point proposal for our future cooperation.
First, speed up regional integration. China hopes to enhance the synergy between the Belt and Road Initiative and the Master Plan on ASEAN Connectivity 2025, and deliver the benefits of the upgraded China-ASEAN Free Trade Area at a faster pace. We will work with relevant parties for early conclusion of the negotiations on the China-Japan-ROK Free Trade Area and the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP).
Second, promote sustainable development. To implement the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, China, the Philippines and Lao PDR co-sponsored the EAS Leaders' Statement on Cooperation in Poverty Alleviation. China will host a seminar on environment and resources management, and continue to hold the Clean Energy Forum and New Energy Forum. China is ready to step up maritime dialogue and cooperation with other parties under the EAS framework, and will host seminars on maritime management and microplastics in the sea.
Third, advance social development. China highly values its cooperation in health, education and other fields with EAS members. We will actively consider hosting cooperation programs on tumor prevention and control and the special food regulation, and continue to advance cultural and people-to-people exchanges and cooperation such as technical and vocational education and training.
Fourth, jointly tackle non-traditional security threats. China supports the EAS leaders in issuing a statement on counter-terrorism cooperation and commends the Philippine government in its effort to fight terrorists. China is ready to enhance counter-terrorism dialogue and cooperation with other parties to jointly uphold regional security and stability. China will continue to support the UN agency in hosting the EAS Exercise on Earthquake Emergency Search and Rescue.
Fifth, develop new approaches to security. We need to advocate and follow a common, comprehensive, cooperative and sustainable security concept and work for win-win security. The white paper on China's Policies on Asia-Pacific Security Cooperation published earlier this year laid out in full China's new security concept, and demonstrated China's positive approach to regional security cooperation. We call upon various parties to properly handle hotspot and sensitive issues and settle differences through dialogue and consultation.
Sixth, improve regional security architecture. We need to improve our approach to regional security governance to tackle security challenges. China supports continued discussion on a regional security architecture. We propose that a joint study be conducted by regional countries on improving the Asia-Pacific security architecture.
Colleagues,
A peaceful South China Sea is a blessing for all countries, whereas turbulence serves no one's interests. China, as the biggest littoral state and a main user of the shipping lanes in the South China Sea, hopes to see peace, stability and freedom of navigation and overflight there more than any other country.
With the joint efforts of China and ASEAN countries, the situation in the South China Sea has notably eased and is showing a positive momentum. The relevant parties have come back to the right track of resolving disputes through consultation and negotiation and improved their relations with countries concerned.
In particular, China and ASEAN countries have been fully and effectively implementing the Declaration on the Conduct of Parties in the South China Sea (DOC), and agreed on the framework of a Code of Conduct (COC) last May. Yesterday, ASEAN leaders and I announced the commencement of the next-step consultations on the COC text. Such progress is indeed heartening. It speaks volumes about the shared desire of regional countries to properly handle differences through dialogue and consultation for peace and stability in the South China Sea. It also fully demonstrates that regional countries have the confidence, wisdom and ability to properly address the South China Sea issue and make the South China Sea a sea of peace, friendship and cooperation.
Going forward, China will continue to work with ASEAN countries to fully and effectively implement the DOC, deepen maritime cooperation and actively pursue the COC consultation, for the early conclusion of the COC on the basis of consensus. We hope non-littoral countries will respect the efforts of regional countries to this end.
Colleagues,
The 19th National Congress of the Communist Party of China held last month has clearly articulated China's firm commitment to peaceful development and to the development of friendship and cooperation with all other countries on the basis of the Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence. It has also called for vigorous promotion of international cooperation on the Belt and Road Initiative, continued participation by China in the reform and development of the global governance system, and efforts to forge a new form of international relations featuring mutual respect, fairness, justice and win-win cooperation, with a view to building a community of shared future for mankind.
These policies and objectives can be implemented in Asia, China's neighborhood, first and foremost. In keeping with the principle of amity, sincerity, mutual benefit and inclusiveness, China will continue to implement the policy of building friendship and partnership with its neighbors and the win-win strategy of opening-up, and pursue its own development and security in the broader context of promoting development and security for all in the region. China's development will only bring opportunities for the development and prosperity of East Asia and the world, and will not pose a threat to any country. China wishes to work with all other EAS members to uphold the good momentum of regional peace, development and cooperation, advance the building of the East Asia Economic Community, and open new prospects for East Asian cooperation and development.
Thank you."
"Manila, 13 November 2017
President Duterte,
Colleagues,
It is my great pleasure to join you at the 20th China-ASEAN Summit. I wish to thank our host, the government of the Philippines, for its thorough preparations and thoughtful arrangement for our meeting. My appreciation also goes to Singapore, country coordinator for China, and other ASEAN members for their efforts in promoting ASEAN's relationship with China.
ASEAN's golden jubilee this year is undoubtedly a cause for celebration. You have accomplished so much in the past 50 years. ASEAN's development has been hailed as the Asian miracle; it has turned a sub-region once mired in war and turmoil into a land of peace and stability; it has transformed the poor and backward Southeast Asia into one of the world's most dynamic and promising economic powerhouse; and it has made the once weak and divided sub-region an important force on the world stage. Taken together, these changes have brought profound shifts in the geopolitical and economic landscape in Asia and beyond and significantly enhanced regional peace, stability, development and prosperity. China truly admires and rejoices at your accomplishments. We are full of confidence in ASEAN's bright future. China will continue to be a firm supporter of ASEAN communities, ASEAN centrality in regional cooperation, and a greater role by ASEAN in regional and international affairs.
All ASEAN members would agree that among ASEAN's many dialogue partnerships, ASEAN plus China stands out as the most vibrant pair with the most substantial cooperation. China was the first to join the Treaty of Amity and Cooperation in Southeast Asia, the first to establish strategic partnership with ASEAN, and the first to launch FTA negotiations with ASEAN. Our trade ties have entered a fast-lane of growth, which saw China remain ASEAN's largest trading partner for eight consecutive years. Our two-way direct investment reached a cumulative total of nearly US$200 billion, and fruitful cooperation has been carried out in other areas as well. China always puts ASEAN high on its diplomatic agenda in developing ties with its neighbors. As committed good neighbors, good friends and good partners sharing weal and woe, China and ASEAN are working together to build a community of shared future with common ideals, common prosperity and common responsibility.
In the context of an international landscape full of profound and complex changes, China and ASEAN's common interests have been expanding, and so are our mutual needs. China stands ready to work with ASEAN and other parties to make this year's East Asia Leaders' Meetings a full success. Let us together take China-ASEAN strategic partnership to a new level, and jointly play our leading role in regional development and cooperation.
Colleagues,
The friendly and cooperative relations between China and ASEAN countries have been carefully nurtured by successive generations of leaders from both sides. In 2013, on the occasion of the tenth anniversary of the China-ASEAN strategic partnership, President Xi Jinping paid a state visit to Indonesia. He put forth the goal of building the 21st Century Maritime Silk Road and forging a closer China-ASEAN community of shared future, which charted the course for the development of China-ASEAN relations. In the same year, during my first China-ASEAN Summit, I proposed a "2+7" cooperation framework to lay out a roadmap for the growth of China-ASEAN cooperation. Five years on, China-ASEAN relations have stood the test of the changing international and regional landscape, with our cooperation advancing in all dimensions, at all levels and in multiple areas.
We remained firmly committed to good-neighborliness and friendship, strengthened high-level exchanges and policy communication, and enhanced political and security cooperation. We have properly managed sensitive issues and disputes through dialogue and negotiation to minimize the distraction of isolated incidents and keep our relations on the right track. With agreement reached on the framework of a code of conduct (COC) in the South China Sea, the situation in the South China Sea has cooled down and showed a positive momentum. Breakthroughs have been made in maritime cooperation, with the holding of the first ever large-scale joint exercise on maritime search and rescue by the two sides. We have also strengthened cooperation mechanisms on combating terrorism, natural disasters, transnational crimes, cross-border communicable diseases and other challenges, raising the level of cooperation in non-conventional security fields. In the context of growing geopolitical risks and the rise of traditional and non-traditional security issues, China-ASEAN good-neighborly friendship serves as an anchor of stability for the region, which is a blessing for countries in the region and their peoples.
We have provided a strong impetus for regional economic cooperation by promoting trade and investment liberalization and facilitation, upgrading the China-ASEAN Free Trade Area, pushing forward negotiations on the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP), and launching the Lancang-Mekong Cooperation (LMC) framework. We worked together to promote Belt and Road cooperation, initiated and successfully launched the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB), and accelerated the implementation of major connectivity projects. We expanded industrial capacity cooperation in an all-round way, and broke new ground in fostering interconnected development. Against the backdrop of a tortuous global recovery and rising protectionism, sustained, fast economic growth by China and ASEAN have made us shining "twin stars" in the constellation of development and "front-runners" of economic globalization, providing positive energy to building an open world economy.
Respecting the cultural diversity of East Asia, we have advocated people-to-people exchanges and mutual learning among civilizations. We created a boom in such exchanges and cooperation by holding a series of "China-ASEAN Year" activities on science and technology, culture, education and tourism, and implementing the Plan of Action on China-ASEAN Cooperation in Culture, making people-to-people cooperation the third pillar of China-ASEAN relations, in addition to political and security cooperation and economic cooperation. Last year, over 38 million mutual visits were made between the two sides, and over 200,000 students studied in each other's countries. All these have increased the mutual understanding between our peoples and cemented popular support for our relations.
China and ASEAN countries have shown to the world that we are good neighbors sharing mountains and rivers and giving each other help and support; we are trustworthy friends with common visions and aspirations; and we are close partners sharing weal and woe and pursuing win-win cooperation. We should carry forward the Asian culture of harmony in diversity, uphold the principles of amity, good faith, equality, openness, inclusiveness and win-win cooperation, and remain committed to respecting each other's core interests and major concerns and accommodating each other's comfort level. All this, together with the combined wisdom and strengths of our two billion people, will enable China and ASEAN to rise above all disruptions to our relations and keep producing fruitful results.
Colleagues,
The 19th National Congress of the Communist Party of China was successfully convened a few weeks ago. The Congress mapped out strategic plans for the development of China from now to the middle of this century. It set out the lofty objective of securing a decisive victory in building a moderately prosperous society in all respects, marking the beginning of a new journey to fully build a modern socialist country. China's development endeavors will create more opportunities and broad space for its cooperation with other countries. ASEAN on its part is taking its community building to a higher level in line with ASEAN Community Vision 2025. Looking ahead, China and ASEAN countries need to follow the trend of peace and development of our times, work closely together to pursue our shared goals, and take our relations to a new height by enhancing cooperation in all areas. In this connection, let me propose the following:
First, we need to develop a joint vision for China-ASEAN relations. As we celebrate the 15th anniversary of China-ASEAN strategic partnership next year, it is necessary for us to plan for the mid- and long-term development of our relations. China proposes that we formulate a China-ASEAN Strategic Partnership Vision 2030 and upgrade the "2+7" cooperation framework into a "3+X" cooperation framework. This will be a new cooperation framework underpinned by the three pillars of political and security cooperation, economic cooperation and people-to-people exchange and supported by cooperation in multiple sectors. The vision 2030 should be aligned with the development strategies of both sides and with the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development of the United Nations by promoting cooperation on sustainable development. This will expand the global dimension of China-ASEAN cooperation and build a new paradigm for South-South cooperation. China suggests that our two sides start the drafting and consultation on this new vision as soon as possible to ensure that it can be submitted to the China-ASEAN Summit next year for deliberation and adoption.
Second, we need to form greater synergy between the Belt and Road Initiative and ASEAN's development plans. ASEAN is a priority region in the pursuit of the Belt and Road Initiative. Following the principle of pursuing shared benefits through consultation and collaboration, China will work with ASEAN countries to deliver on the outcomes of the Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation, further synergize the Belt and Road Initiative with the Master Plan on ASEAN Connectivity 2025 and deepen all-round cooperation in business, finance, infrastructure, rules and mechanisms, and human resources. China welcomes the adoption of the Joint Statement on Further Deepening China-ASEAN Infrastructure Connectivity Cooperation at this meeting, and stands ready to work with ASEAN to effectively implement the newly revised Strategic Plan for China-ASEAN Transport Cooperation. Major projects on land, maritime, aviation and cyber connectivity will be vigorously implemented to demonstrate the real difference such cooperation brings. China will launch the China-ASEAN Environmental Information Sharing Platform to facilitate the development of the big data service platform for ecological and environmental protection among the Belt and Road countries.
Third, we need to steadily advance political and security cooperation. Only with deep roots of political mutual trust can the tree of win-win cooperation grow tall and sturdy. We need to maintain close high-level exchanges, enhance policy communication and dialogue, and deepen political and security cooperation to increase mutual understanding and trust. China will work with ASEAN to strengthen judiciary cooperation and cooperation in non-traditional security fields such as combating transnational crimes, counter-terrorism and cybersecurity. We are ready to implement the Nanning Statement of the Second China-ASEAN Justice Forum issued this year and the renewed Memorandum of Understanding Between the People's Republic of China and ASEAN on Cooperation in the Field of Non-Traditional Security Issues. We welcome the China-ASEAN Joint Statement on Comprehensively Strengthening Effective Anti-Corruption Cooperation adopted at this meeting and stand ready to send experts to ASEAN countries to provide on-site training on cyber-emergency response. We welcome the active participation of ASEAN countries in the first tabletop exercise of China-ASEAN joint maritime search and rescue to be held in China next year.
Fourth, we need to strengthen the bond of business cooperation. In the past five years, the Chinese economy registered an average annual growth of over 7%, contributing 30% to global growth and also boosting the economies of ASEAN countries. In cumulative terms, China's import from ASEAN has surpassed US$1 trillion and its direct investment in ASEAN has reached US$36 billion in the same period. This has made China an important export market and source of investment for ASEAN countries. As the Chinese economy enters a stage of high-quality growth, new drivers are fast emerging. Given its robust strength, strong resilience and huge potential, the Chinese economy can well maintain sound growth for years to come. China is a country of over 1.3 billion people. Its rising household income, expanding middle-income group and increasingly diversified consumption has ensured China's place as the most promising growth market in the world. China is also a major outward investor with abundant foreign exchange reserve and a growing number of companies who are both willing and able to explore the global market.
All these will create new opportunities for China-ASEAN business cooperation and give a new impetus to our common development. China does not seek trade surpluses. We will import more competitive goods from ASEAN countries. We hope that all ASEAN countries will ratify the protocol on upgrading China-ASEAN Free Trade Area as soon as possible. We are ready to complete the negotiations on the product specific rules of origin with the ASEAN side at an early date to deliver the benefits of the upgraded FTA to our companies and people in the nearest future. China will work with ASEAN countries to actively advance RCEP negotiations, further promote trade and investment liberalization and facilitation in the region, and lay the foundation for the building of an East Asia economic community. Next year, China will continue to provide grant assistance to ASEAN. We are ready to conclude the Memorandum of Understanding between China and ASEAN on helping Cambodia and Myanmar to establish animal disease control and prevention laboratories at an early date.
China's advanced industrial capacity as well as cost effective equipment are well-suited to the development needs of ASEAN countries. China stands ready to work with ASEAN countries to implement the Joint Statement Between China and ASEAN on Production Capacity Cooperation issued last year, including jointly building trade and industrial cooperation parks and facilitating the launch of major projects of international industrial capacity cooperation. We should together develop better integrated industrial, value and logistics chains that will help boost growth and deliver more widely shared benefits. China is keen to enhance financial cooperation with ASEAN countries in the course of RMB's internationalization, expand the scale of local currency settlement, facilitate the development of local currency bond markets, and promote the use of local currency in regional investment and trade. China will set up a China-ASEAN Inter-bank Association Special Loan equivalent to RMB10 billion to support our cooperation projects.
Fifth, we need to raise the level of people-to-people exchange and cooperation. Tourism is one of the areas with the greatest consensus, best foundation and biggest potential for cooperation. China will implement the Joint Statement Between China and ASEAN on Tourism Cooperation to be issued at this meeting, host the first China-ASEAN tourism ministers' meeting, and take our tourism cooperation to a new level. During this year's China-ASEAN Education Cooperation Week, we adopted the Plan of Action for China-ASEAN Education Cooperation (2017-2020), which set the direction for our education cooperation in the next stage. In the next three years, China will provide ASEAN countries with no less than 20,000 government scholarships. We proposed the China-ASEAN Human Resource Development Program, and will invite 3,000 ASEAN visitors to China for study programs in 2018. Furthermore, the two sides will enhance cooperation on capacity building in areas including economy and trade, agriculture, science and technology, education, culture, health, public administration and transport.
China has been pursuing a strategy of innovation-driven growth, which involves vigorous actions on promoting Internet plus, national big data strategy and Made in China 2025. ASEAN has also given strategic priority to digital innovation and identified innovation-driven growth as its priority task. This promises unprecedented opportunities for innovation cooperation between the two sides. China supports designating 2018 as the China-ASEAN Innovation Year. We will host a series of events such as the Forum on China-ASEAN Technology Transfer and Collaborative Innovation and the China-ASEAN Youth Innovation and Entrepreneurship Competition. In the next five years, China will invite 500 young ASEAN scientists to visit China for short-term scientific research, provide 1,200 training opportunities for ASEAN professionals in science, technology and management, and launch 10 joint laboratories. Fast progress in scientific and technological innovation cooperation will lead the way for all-round cooperation on innovation.
Colleagues,
Peace and stability in the South China Sea is closely linked to the development and prosperity of regional countries. Countries in the region stand to benefit the most from a peaceful South China Sea, yet they will also bear the brunt of instability. China conducts most of its trade through the South China Sea. We want peace and stability there more than any other country. China's commitment to the goal of upholding peace and stability in the South China Sea will not change, nor will we change our policy of peacefully resolving disputes over territory and maritime rights and interests through consultation and negotiation with countries directly concerned. China looks forward to working with ASEAN countries in the constructive spirit of friendly consultation to continue to fully and effectively implement the Declaration on the Conduct of Parties in the South China Sea (DOC) and actively advance consultations on the COC. The COC framework, agreed upon by all relevant parties, represents our common understanding on the main elements of the COC and is an important initial outcome of the COC consultation.
China proposes that the commencement of the next-step consultation on the text of the COC be officially declared at this meeting. We hope the parties could increase their mutual understanding and trust through COC consultation and strive to conclude COC on the basis of consensus at an early date to make it an anchor of peace and stability in the South China Sea. China welcomes the adoption of the Declaration for a Decade of Coastal and Marine Environmental Protection (2017-2027). Under the framework of DOC implementation and COC consultation, we are ready to conduct practical cooperation with ASEAN countries in the South China Sea in such areas as maritime search and rescue and marine environmental protection, and support relevant projects with the China-ASEAN Maritime Cooperation Fund and the China-ASEAN Cooperation Fund.
Colleagues,
There is a saying in the Philippines, "A broom is sturdy because its strands are tightly bound. (Matibay ang walis, plibhasa'y magkabigkis.)" I am convinced that so long as China and ASEAN stand more firmly together and work hand in hand to pursue common progress, we will create broad prospects for building a China-ASEAN community of shared future.
Thank you.
."
"Manila, 14 November 2017
President Duterte,
Colleagues,
It gives me great pleasure to attend the 20th ASEAN Plus China, Japan and ROK (APT) Summit. On behalf of the Chinese government, I wish to express sincere appreciation to the government of the Philippines for its thoughtful preparations and arrangements for the meeting.
APT cooperation, now in its 20th year, was born from the joint efforts of Asian countries to tackle the financial crisis. Over the past 20 years, thanks to the concerted efforts of all parties, the APT cooperation framework has kept improving and incorporated broader areas. It has become one of the most full-fledged and productive cooperation frameworks in Asia, making positive contribution to peace, stability, development and prosperity in East Asia.
The world economy is now seeing an upward momentum, with global trade and investment starting to pick up and the international financial markets maintaining general stability. China-Japan and China-ROK relations are showing a momentum of improvement. All these have created new opportunities for APT cooperation. This said, the uneven global economic recovery, rising anti-globalization and protectionist sentiments and flare-ups of regional hotspots are also posing challenges to APT cooperation. China hopes that our meeting will build up consensus and send a positive message of our firm commitment to regional integration and to the building of the East Asia Economic Community (EAEC), which serves the interests of our countries and peoples and adds positive energy to fostering an open world economy.
Colleagues,
Our summit today is a commemorative event for the 20th anniversary of APT cooperation. As such, it has special significance for the future of this cooperation framework. Thanks to our commitment to common development in the past two decades, East Asia has stood the test of two financial crises and become one of the most dynamic and promising regions in the world. Together, we contributed 44% to world economic growth last year. Our efforts to advance regional integration through vigorous trade and investment liberalization and facilitation have delivered good results: the ASEAN Community has been established; the China-ASEAN Free Trade Area (FTA) has been upgraded; a high-standard China-ROK FTA has been set up; and RCEP negotiations have made solid progress. Practical cooperation has been the driving force for the APT process. Cooperation in 24 areas has yielded positive outcomes and produced a large number of flagship projects, such as the CMIM, APTERR, AMRO and East Asia Forum. We have worked on institution building to sustain APT cooperation. A framework with the leaders' summit at the center, supported by ministerial, senior officials' and ambassadorial meetings has been established. These hard-won achievements and valuable experience deserve to be cherished and carried forward.
Building the EAEC has been one of the strategic objectives of APT cooperation and serves the long-term and fundamental interests of the people in the region. We now enjoy a rare opportunity, advantageous conditions and extensive support for advancing this worthy cause. And we should do so expeditiously. In China's view, EAEC building needs to serve one purpose, follow two principles, and be advanced in three spheres. The "one purpose" is to promote regional economic integration to deliver integrated development and common progress. The "two principles" are the centrality of ASEAN and the ASEAN Way featuring consensus-building, openness and inclusiveness, and accommodating each other's comfort level. It needs to be advanced at the "three spheres" with APT cooperation serving as the main channel, the three 10+1 as the basis, and sub-regional mechanisms such as China-Japan-ROK, Lancang-Mekong and BIMP-EAGA as useful supplement. All this will help put EAEC on a track of sound, steady and sustainable development.
At the 15th East Asia Forum hosted by China in Changsha last June, representatives from governments, businesses and academia discussed EAEC development and drafted a concept paper entitled "East Asia Economic Community Blueprint". We may draw on the experience of the ASEAN Community in formulating the blueprint, goals, quantitative indicators, roadmap and timetable for EAEC. Our cooperation may start from areas with the most extensive consensus and most solid foundation to be gradually expanded to more areas and upgraded to higher levels. We need to make sure that all countries will benefit from the process to generate greater confidence and incentive for EAEC building. In this connection, let me propose the following.
First, we need to vigorously promote trade liberalization and facilitation to move toward a single market step by step. Last year, the combined trade volume of APT countries exceeded 8 trillion US dollars, accounting for one quarter of the world's total; yet only 40% of it was intra-regional trade, which means there is great potential to expand trade among ourselves. All parties need to further open their markets, reduce tariff and non-tariff barriers, enhance liberalization in services trade and investment facilitation, and foster interdependent regional trade chains. All this will help further open up our region and unleash greater dynamism and potential for our development. China will work with Japan and the ROK to expedite trilateral FTA negotiations and will take a more proactive approach in advancing RCEP negotiations to pave the way for the long-term goal of the FTAAP. It is also necessary to establish a pan-East Asia customs clearance cooperation mechanism to step up cooperation in information exchange, mutual regulatory recognition and mutual law-enforcement assistance in customs procedures. The practice of single window system for international trade should be adopted more extensively. Innovative forms of trade need to be encouraged to create enabling conditions for cross-border e-commerce.
Second, we need to expand industrial capacity and investment cooperation to forge industrial chains for win-win results. APT countries have respective strengths in labor, resources, technology, capital, market and industrial capacity. There is a great potential for further cooperation among us, be it through horizontal or vertical division of labor. While expanding investment cooperation in traditional sectors such as light industry, textiles, home appliances, construction materials and metallurgy, China is ready to advance cooperation in emerging sectors such as the digital economy, smart economy, green economy and sharing economy and in building industrial, value and innovation chains that we can all participate in and benefit from. Apart from bilateral cooperation, we should also look for opportunities to expand third-party cooperation; and while leveraging the leading role of big companies, we should give full play to the supportive roles of SMEs, so that businesses of all sizes can better integrate their operations. China is ready to work with other parties to develop an APT SME Service Alliance that will help more SMEs to benefit from industrial chain cooperation. In this connection, China will host an APT Seminar on Innovation Cooperation for SME Service Institutions in Shenzhen next week. The presence of your SMEs will be most welcome. China also supports the convening of the International Symposium on APT Industrial Capacity Cooperation and the International Forum for China-Japan-ROK Industrial Capacity Cooperation to increase intellectual input in such cooperation.
Third, we need to strengthen infrastructure cooperation to develop connectivity networks. Connectivity as the very basis of economic cooperation should be a priority in building the EAEC. China will work for greater synergy between its Belt and Road Initiative and ASEAN's Connectivity Master Plan and, on that basis, explore with regional countries a master plan for East Asia connectivity that comprises land, sea, air and cyber links. China supports all-dimensional sharing of logistics information by regional countries. We may explore the extension of the Northeast Asia Logistics Information Service Network to the ASEAN region to form an integrated logistics system across East Asia. China supports the creation of an East Asia energy and resources cooperation mechanism to buttress regional energy and resources security. The development of an East Asia maritime cooperation platform should also be encouraged for the purpose of boosting cooperation in marine economy, marine environment protection, disaster management and fishing. China will facilitate the provision of more financing support by the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank and the Silk Road Fund to connectivity endeavors in our region.
Fourth, we need to deepen financial cooperation to safeguard regional financial stability. Financial cooperation is one of the earliest and most fruitful areas of APT cooperation, and also a priority in building the EAEC. We need to jointly build up a regional financial cooperation system by strengthening cooperation in such areas as currency stability, investment, financing, and credit rating. We should do a good job in the periodic review of the CMIM, make it safer, more effective and more readily available, and add more building blocks to the regional financial safety net. China hails AMRO's permanent observer status in the UN General Assembly and supports effective exercise of its role as a regional economic surveillance platform. China is committed to make contribution to CGIF's capital increase to facilitate the development of the Asian bond market. We also support the positive role of the Asia Financial Cooperation Association in safeguarding the stability of regional and global financial markets.
Fifth, we need to strengthen cooperation in sustainable development to make development in East Asia more balanced, inclusive and beneficial to all. In building the EAEC, we need to make sure that all parties benefit from the process and that the concerns of the less developed countries and the disadvantaged communities are duly accommodated. We need to implement the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and intensify cooperation in food, energy and poverty reduction to make the process of development more fulfilling for our people as they participate in and gain from it. In the interest of regional food security, China and Thailand have co-sponsored an APT Leaders' Statement on Food Security Cooperation to be adopted by this meeting. China also supports institution building for the APTERR and will continue to do our best in hosting such programs as the Roundtable Meeting on APT Food Security Cooperation Strategy and the Modern Agriculture Workshop for East Asian Countries. China is earnestly following through on the East Asia Cooperation Initiative on Poverty Reduction and stands ready to strengthen cooperation with regional countries on micro infrastructure and public services. China welcomes more experience sharing with other APT countries to jointly explore effective ways of poverty reduction tailored to the needs of our region.
Sixth, we need to expand cultural and people-to-people exchange to instill a greater sense of community among our peoples. For the EAEC to be successful, it must be built on solid popular support. We need to encourage more interactions between our peoples and more mutual learning in the cultural sphere to forge deeper mutual understanding, greater trust and stronger friendship. We need to step up tourism cooperation, streamline visa and customs procedures, encourage more events such as designating specific weeks or months for tourism promotion purposes or declaring year of tourism, and make traveling easier, safer and more comfortable. China supports more interactions between the East Asia Cultural Cities and ASEAN Cultural Cities as well as the development of the APT Rectors' Conference, and will continue to run the "Understanding China" program, the APT Media Cooperation Forum, the APT Workshop on Cooperation for Cultural Human Resource Development and other similar programs. China was the first to contribute to the replenishment of the APT Cooperation Fund, and will continue to encourage the Fund to channel resources to cultural and people-to-people programs, those for our young people in particular. China supports track II mechanisms such as the East Asia Forum and NEAT in contributing more insightful ideas and recommendations for EAEC building.
Regional peace and stability is the basis and prerequisite for East Asia cooperation. As a close neighbor of the Korean Peninsula, China is firmly committed to the goal of denuclearization of the Peninsula, to peace and stability there and in this region, and to resolving the issue through dialogue and consultation. This is China's unwavering position. To achieve the above-mentioned goals, China has put forth the "dual track" approach and the "suspension for suspension" initiative, which we hope will receive positive response from all parties. In the meantime, the parties concerned need to avoid any words or actions that may aggravate tensions, and play a constructive role for the peaceful resolution of the Peninsula issue.
Colleagues,
Despite a complex and fast-changing international environment and persistent downward pressure on the Chinese economy in recent years, China neither resorted to massive stimulus nor engaged in competitive devaluation. Instead, we relied on supply-side structural reforms to innovate and improve macro-regulation and foster new drivers of growth. These painstaking efforts have paid off in terms of notably improved economic performance. First, we have kept a medium-high growth rate. In the past four years, China posted an average annual growth rate of 7.2%, and contributed 30% to world economic growth. More than 13 million urban jobs were created every year, and the rise in urban and rural income outpaced economic growth. Second, structural readjustment has picked up speed. From 2013 to 2016, the share of final consumption in overall growth rose from 47% to 64.6%, the proportion of added value of the services sector in total GDP grew from 46.7% to 51.6%, labor productivity surged by 30.2% whereas energy consumption per unit of GDP dropped by 17.9%, all indicating better quality and efficiency of growth in China. Third, new growth drivers are replacing old ones at a faster rate. Emerging sectors such as the digital economy are booming; traditional industries are being transformed and upgraded; and growth in new economic models such as mobile payment has surpassed all expectations. New market entities are emerging en masse. Over the past three years, 14,000 new enterprises were registered on a daily basis. These new growth drivers have been the main pillar for economic growth and job creation, and set the Chinese economy on a new track of innovation-driven development, with steady growth and faster upgrading being achieved at the same time.
In 2017, China's economy has continued its good momentum of steady growth with better-than-expected performance of all major indicators and simultaneous improvement in the speed and efficiency of growth. In the first three quarters, the economy grew by 6.9%; surveyed unemployment rate in 31 major cities stayed at a relatively low level of around 4.9%; import and export increased by 16.6%; fiscal revenue grew by 9.7%; corporate profits of large industrial companies expanded by 22.8%; and reduction of excess capacity in steel and coal sectors exceeded this year's targets. The bond, stock and real estate markets have been generally stable, corporate leverage ratio has come down moderately, and the financial system has shown robust and steady performance with risks effectively brought under control. The RMB exchange rate has remained basically stable, foreign currency reserves have kept increasing and market confidence has been boosted. The Chinese economy now shows stronger dynamism, greater resilience and brighter prospects.
We are in the middle of a transition in the Chinese economy from high-speed growth to high-quality growth. The 19th National Congress of the Communist Party of China convened last month has drawn an ambitious blueprint for China's future development. We will continue to follow the principle of striving for progress while maintaining stability, pursue innovative, coordinated, green, open and shared development and give greater emphasis to quality and efficiency. We will concentrate on supply-side structural reforms, upgrade the quality, efficiency and drivers of growth and raise total factor productivity for the sustained and sound development of the economy. We will stay committed to the basic state policy of opening-up, give priority to the implementation of the Belt and Road Initiative, and pay equal attention to attracting inbound and making outbound investment. We will adopt high-standard policies for trade and investment liberalization and facilitation and develop global networks of trade, investment, financing, production and services to break new ground in China's all-round opening-up. These efforts will help deliver a Chinese economy that is more efficient, equitable, sustainable and of higher quality.
A more open and prosperous China will not only benefit the more than one billion Chinese people, but also offer larger markets and more opportunities for growth, investment and cooperation to countries across East Asia and the world. It is estimated that in the coming five years, China will import 8 trillion US dollars worth of goods, receive 600 billion US dollars of foreign investment, and make 750 billion US dollars of outbound investment. And there will be 700 million visits by Chinese tourists to overseas destinations. We will hold the first China international imports expo in November next year and look forward to the active participation of all regional countries. I heard there is a saying from Southeast Asia, which goes: lotus flowers get lifted as the water rises. Similarly, we Chinese say that those in the waterfront pavilion get the earliest view of the moon. As China develops, its neighbors are the first to benefit and will benefit the most, and China's development will certainly boost the economies of other East Asian countries.
Colleagues,
It has been 20 years since we initiated the APT cooperation. Just like a young man in his prime, APT cooperation is full of vigor and promises a great future. Let us join hands in building the East Asia Economic Community and together usher in another 20 years of even more dynamic APT cooperation.
Thank you."
"On June 27, 2017, following his address at the Opening Ceremony of the Annual Meeting of the New Champions 2017, Premier of the State Council Li Keqiang answered questions from Executive Chairman of the World Economic Forum Klaus Schwab at Dalian International Conference Center. On June 28, Premier Li sat down for a dialogue with representatives of international business leaders attending the Annual Meeting. Below is a transcript of these interactions:
Professor Schwab:
In your speech, you talked about the dynamic development of the Chinese economy as well as relevant policies. I'm sure these policies can help sustain such dynamism. It is a remarkable achievement for China, the second biggest economy in the world, to grow at nearly 7%. Could you please share with us in greater detail what measures the government will take to keep such positive momentum going in the future?
Premier Li:
China used to grow at double-digit rates, but now the growth has moderated to a medium-high level of 6.9% in the first quarter of this year. Some characterize this trend as a slowdown, but that wouldn't be very accurate, as the Chinese economy has become much bigger than before. Every one percentage point of growth in GDP now would generate the same amount of additional output as 1.5 percentage point growth five years ago or 2 percent growth ten years ago. I often use the analogy of somersaults to describe such a situation: It is much easier for a child to do a dozen somersaults at one go than for an adult, for whom just three or four would be quite an accomplishment. For major economies with GDPs of two trillion US dollars or above, a 3% growth would be no mean feat. I hope you can view the Chinese economy in an objective way. It will keep growing at medium-high speed, as we have 1.3 billion people, huge market potential and social creativity.
To sustain the positive momentum requires a host of measures. We will keep on working in the following three areas for a considerable time to come.
First, we will maintain stability in macroeconomic policies. This means we will continue to implement a proactive fiscal policy and prudent monetary policy. We will not resort to massive stimulus measures. Instead, we will continue to undertake structural adjustments and provide the market with stable and clear expectations, which is of overriding importance in a market economy.
Second, we will advance reform and opening-up. In undertaking supply-side structural reforms, the government will continue to streamline administration, delegate its power, widen market access and enhance compliance oversight to create a level playing field. We will ease corporate burdens by reducing taxes and administrative fees to unleash the vitality of the market.
Third, we will accelerate efforts to replace traditional drivers of growth with new ones. We will adopt market- and rules-based approach to tackle and phase out excess and backward capacity in steel, coal and other sectors. Meanwhile, we will work hard to grow new drivers and encourage the development of new technologies, new business forms and models. In this process, the government will exercise accommodating and prudent supervision to provide an enabling environment for the healthy growth of the new economy. Furthermore, Chinese and foreign-invested companies will be treated as equals.
Professor Schwab:
Looking around the world, the Chinese government has been most effective in embracing the Fourth Industrial Revolution. I want to congratulate you and the Chinese government on that. That said, the Fourth Industrial Revolution also has its disruptive effect, including on employment and income distribution. You did talk about this in your opening speech. What steps is the Chinese government taking to reduce such adverse impact?
Premier Li:
Thank you, Professor Schwab, for your positive comments on the steps taken by the Chinese government in the Fourth Industrial Revolution or the new industrial revolution, but I would hesitate to say that we are most effective in this aspect. As a Chinese proverb goes, "when the moon reaches its fullest, it begins to wane". We are in constant pursuit of perfection out of a recognition of our own imperfections. I believe the new round of industrial revolution brings more opportunities than challenges, but it is not always the case in all fields and sectors. After all, everything has its pros and cons.
Take employment for example, will the extensive application of artificial intelligence and robots deprive people of their jobs? This is indeed a question, and it is already happening in some industries and sectors. Yet, through the Internet Plus initiative and mass entrepreneurship and innovation, new technologies and new business forms empowered by the new round of industrial revolution, such as online shopping, express delivery and bike-sharing, have generated far more jobs than those taken by robots. In this sense, what we are experiencing is only a structural shift, which calls for adjusting the training in labor skills. We will meet such challenge head on, because it is simply inescapable. More importantly, the development of new technologies, business forms and models makes it possible to accommodate and harness people's individual choices to generate greater market potential and put everyone's talent to best use. By pooling the wisdom of all people, we will be able to create far more wealth and jobs than what have been lost.
This is a race against time. Professor Schwab just said that in the future, it's not going to be the big fish eating the small fish,but the fast fish eating the slow fish. I want to add to that metaphor. The fast fish will certainly do better than the slow fish, but I do hope that the slow fish will move faster and catch up with the fast fish, and the fast fish will also turn around to help the slow fish.
Feike Sijbesma, Chairman and CEO of the Royal DSM Group:
Premier Li, over the last several years, key tasks have been performed on the supply-side reform. My question is: Could you elaborate a little bit on the progress in these areas and the contribution the international business community can bring to reform in the next stage?
Premier Li:
China has focused on supply-side structural reform in comprehensively deepening reform in recent years. One of its key tasks is to phase out and cut overcapacity in coal and steel production. Last year alone, more than 65 million tons of steel-making capacity and over 290 million tons of coal-production capacity were eliminated. At the same time, we are nurturing new drivers of growth and reducing the burden on companies by widening market access and cutting taxes and administrative fees. A multitude of new market entities has since sprung up in China. Over the past four years, the number of Chinese enterprises has doubled, reaching 27 million, and the number of market entities in total has surpassed 90 million. They have spawned a surge in new technologies and new business forms. China's reform, especially supply-side structural reform, has boosted the structural transformation and upgrading of the Chinese economy.
We all know that excess capacity exists in some sectors globally. This is the result of the quantitative easing policies taken by some countries in response to the financial crisis. Nothing short of a global solution is required. In the face of this issue, China has not shied away from its responsibilities. Instead, we have made painstaking efforts to phase out excess capacity through supply-side structural reform, which is also our contribution to the international community.
Over the past three decades, reform in China has always moved forward side by side with opening-up in a mutually reinforcing way. To advance reform, we need the participation of foreign capital, businesses and expertise. Foreign companies are welcome to take part in the merger and reorganization of enterprises in China. While fostering new growth drivers, we will lower market access thresholds in service sectors for foreign investors and introduce a negative-list management model. The policy support enjoyed by Chinese companies in keeping with WTO rules will be equally applied to foreign enterprises registered in China. We welcome continued investment from your company in China.
Alex Molinaroli, Chairman and CEO of Johnson Controls: The Made-in-China 2025 strategy has greatly promoted China's manufacturing and innovation capabilities. You have already addressed one of my questions about foreign investment and a level playing field for foreign companies within China when answering the last question. Then what challenges and obstacles are there in the implementation of this strategy and what does the Chinese government plan to do in response?
Premier Li:
The Made-in-China 2025 is a forward-looking strategy developed on the basis of the current industrialization level in China. It is designed to raise the quality of Chinese products and equipment. While made-in-China products have acquired a sound global reputation, those products are still at the low and medium level in terms of quality. Similarly, China's equipment is yet to reach a high level, and we still need to import foreign equipment. The Made-in-China 2025 strategy aims to boost the quality of Chinese equipment with the application of intelligent technologies through cooperation with foreign partners.
First, the Made-in-China 2025 strategy will bring huge opportunities for both Chinese and foreign businesses. To enhance the quality of their products, Chinese companies need to introduce advanced techniques and equipment. This can be achieved through cooperation with developed countries. For example, we are synergizing this strategy with Germany's Industry 4.0, and cooperating with the United States. In the future, more foreign equipment-manufacturing products and technologies will enter the Chinese market.
Second, we expect to see more cooperation between Chinese and foreign companies in equipment technologies. For foreign equipment makers to expand their presence in the Chinese market, they need to localize their products. For example, the US company General Motors has been able to take a big share of the Chinese market through setting up joint ventures with Chinese companies and remodeling its vehicles according to road and climatic conditions in China. This has secured a growing market for the company in China.
I want to stress that such cooperation is voluntary and helps companies expand in the Chinese market and even in third countries. The Chinese government does not allow Chinese companies to impose mandatory technology transfer requirements on their foreign partners, still less will we tolerate infringements on intellectual property rights.
Third, in areas of the Made-in-China 2025 strategy, such as green development, where both the Paris Agreement and WTO encourage governments to provide policy support, foreign-invested companies registered in China will enjoy the same policy incentives offered by the Chinese government as their Chinese counterparts.
Now, let me address a misunderstanding about the Made-in-China 2025 strategy. To those people who seem to believe that the purpose of the relevant policies is to shut the door on imports of foreign equipment, let me say this: First, door-shutting is impossible. We live in a globalized world, where companies make their own choices about the equipment they want to purchase, and they should be given the right to do so in the open market. Second, it is natural for any country to want to make equipment of a higher quality. It is only that in a globalized world, this cannot be done with one's doors closed. Third, given the size of the Chinese market, when China climbs up the quality ladder, this will also boost global demand for manufactured products and equipment.
Mark Benioff, Chairman and CEO of Salesforce:
It's great to be here in the conference. Your speech yesterday was excellent and was very meaningful to me personally. As you know, there have been a lot of transitions and changes in the US since I was here last just a year ago. I was very interested in hearing your comments about these changes if possible. Now, the Chinese government has placed great importance, you spoke about it last year as well, on the development of new companies and entrepreneurs, and on mass innovation and entrepreneurship, which you also articulated many times. So what challenges do you see based on what is happening in the world today facing this effort? Tell me also how can we both from the US and also the international business community participate more meaningfully in your efforts, including your Belt and Road initiative.
Premier Li:
China and the US are the world's largest developing country and largest developed country respectively. Steady growth of China-US relations and expansion of our economic and commercial relations will bring tremendous benefits to people of the two countries and also to world peace, development and cooperation. No matter how the situation in our respective countries may evolve, we are sure about one thing, that is, China-US relations have always kept moving ahead despite ups and downs in the past several decades. Our two-way trade has seen strong growth, in particular, from just about one billion US dollars before we established diplomatic ties to over 500 billion US dollars last year. It would be fair to say that China and the US now have forged a community of inseparable interests.
The Chinese government's initiative of mass entrepreneurship and innovation is first and foremost about employment. The government faces quite a big pressure in terms of employment, as we need to generate as many as 15 million new urban jobs each year to accommodate new entrants into the labor force. As big companies enhance efficiency and introduce more robots and manipulators, it is only natural that the total number of jobs they can offer has been somewhat declining. With government efforts to widen market access, as many as 15,000 small and micro businesses are getting registered on an average day in China, and they have been a large source of new jobs. Now in China, small and micro businesses provide 80% of all jobs. They are the backbone of inclusive growth.
Second, this initiative is intended to meet the needs for innovation. The new industrial revolution has brought about a major shift in the marketplace, which is the exponential growth in individualistic customer demands. Meeting these demands requires flexible business models and innovation in management and organizational structures. The SMEs have an edge in adaptability. As a Chinese idiom goes, it is easy for a small boat to shift direction.
Third, the initiative of mass entrepreneurship and innovation is a response to the trend of integrated development among large, medium and small companies. Not just small companies make innovations to accommodate special needs, many big companies have also been engaged in customized production, which requires adjustments in their organizational structures. I visited a local equipment manufacturer in Dalian, which has opened a lot of maker spaces on its production lines. The maker teams are able to remodel products according to customer needs. Although this company produces large equipment, 85% of its products are made to order. Not just this company, many large companies are doing the same.
Naturally, we also need to overcome some difficulties in the process of promoting mass entrepreneurship and innovation.
First, the government needs to shed its vested interests, lower the threshold for market access, and spend more energy on compliance oversight. The playing field ought to be level, and we can never allow sales of shoddy or counterfeited products, fraud and violations of intellectual property rights.
Second, the financial sector has come under strain. It may be a global challenge for SMEs to get loans as all banks seem to favor big companies. China is no exception. This is why we are encouraging financial inclusion in China by providing incentives to financial institutions to lend to SMEs.
Third, as SMEs make innovation and pursue integrated development with large and medium-sized companies, how to incentivize inventors and innovators to make further innovations by protecting intellectual property rights has become a challenge. Now applications for patents and inventions from SMEs account for 70% of the total. But this does involve some disputes. For those big companies that have makers and small businesses at maker spaces on their production lines, the challenge is how to share the profits between them and their smaller partners to promote common development.
I cited the example of the company I visited in Dalian, whose owner is a visionary man. He told me that he has been able to involve a lot of makers on his production lines to improve products, and the value generated through such cooperation were divided at a ratio of 30% to 70%. I asked him who took 30% and who took 70%. He said 70% of the profits went to makers and he took the smaller share. I praised him for his courageous generosity. He replied that had it not been for those makers, he would not be able to get even 10% of newly generated revenue.
The story of the company shows that it is necessary to protect intellectual property rights and at the same time incentivize innovations. This requires further efforts on our part to explore an effective approach. Although the makers make use of the equipment of the company for their innovations, the owner of the company recognizes the superior value of the makers' ideas. That said, it won't be easy for everyone to recognize this.
Patrice Motsepe, Founder and CEO of African Rainbow Minerals:
I am a businessman from South Africa. I was the first Chairman of the BRICS Business Council. I saw how the BRICS countries, but Africa in particular, benefited immensely from the growth of the Chinese economy as well as from trade with China. I have no doubt that the rest of the world has benefited immensely from trading with China. My question is: The WTO's Trade Facilitation Agreement (TFA) entered into force earlier this year. China has been an active supporter in this area. What will be the major challenges in enforcing the agreement? And what further steps will China adopt to advance global trade facilitation?
Premier Li:
You raised a very important question, particularly in the context of the growing backlash against globalization. There have been as many as 3,000 protectionist measures adopted by various countries in the past ten years since the outbreak of the international financial crisis. The entry into force of the Trade Facilitation Agreement, which was adopted by the WTO in 2013, would be beneficial for global economic recovery and for guiding market expectations.
The TFA is the first multilateral agreement on trade in goods China acceded to after joining the WTO. The Chinese State Council completed domestic procedures for its ratification in less than two years. As things stand, some one third of the WTO members are yet to go through ratification procedures. We hope all parties will work together for the TFA to be fully implemented this year. According to estimates by experts, the TFA, once implemented, will add at least one trillion US dollars to global trade. That would undoubtedly be good news for a steady global recovery.
While observing the TFA, China will advance trade facilitation as much as possible in line with its national conditions. First, we will consolidate the mandate of various agencies to streamline customs clearance procedures for businesses by establishing "single window" service centers.
Second, we will make customs clearance faster. We intend to shorten the time needed for customs clearance by another one third this year, and will aim to meet the most advanced international standards regarding customs clearance procedures and speed in the not so distant future.
Third, we will enhance cooperation with other countries, particularly in mutual recognition of inspection between regulatory authorities, to avoid repetitive procedures and lower costs for businesses.
These are the technical measures we will take. What is most important, I believe, is that we must recognize the valuable role of free trade in boosting global economic recovery. Trade liberalization and investment facilitation is the hallmark of free trade. When everyone acts to promote free trade with an open-minded approach, this will provide consumers with more choices and compel domestic companies to innovate and upgrade. In the meantime, we should take account of the varying national conditions of different countries, and adopt measures to cushion the impact on certain sectors through consultation among countries on the basis of mutual understanding and mutual accommodation. But overall we need to keep to the right direction.
Professor Schwab:
Mr. Premier, I want to take this opportunity to ask you a question about the development of the Internet and digitization. The Internet Plus policy is a very important national strategy. But if we look at digitization, we can no longer make differentiation between digital industries and old-fashioned industries. Today, every industry is digitized. Could you share with us what your experiences and challenges are in this aspect? Particularly, how the international business community could be more meaningfully engaged into China's efforts of overall digitization of its economy?
Premier Li:
The introduction of the Internet has given rise to a mushrooming of new forms of business. And big data application has become a trend. We must adapt to this trend in order to seize as many opportunities as possible. Traditional industries did come under challenges. I once cited the example of physical stores going through the painful experience of confronting or even conflicting with online shops. Now many physical stores have also opened their own online stores, which has made them more competitive. As we can see, notwithstanding the numerous challenges, we have more ways and means to overcome them.
The Internet Plus strategy the Chinese government has been advancing is inherently open to the world. We have in China a large number of cloud platforms that are attractive to foreign businesses or individuals. Foreign companies are getting registered on such platforms in large numbers. In sectors of basic telecommunications and value-added services in China, many business areas are now open to foreign investors, which represents the highest level of openness so far among all developing countries. This means tremendous opportunities for foreign firms.
Furthermore, China has over 900 million mobile broadband users and over 730 million Internet users. We are also actively advancing cross-border e-commerce. Foreign companies can sell their products and services on the e-commerce platforms. Nothing is impossible as long as you act on your ideas. In this process, the Chinese government will exercise prudent yet accommodating regulation to make sure that foreign companies can grow together with Chinese companies and join in our efforts to boost the Chinese economy and deliver greater convenience to the Chinese people. For the online economy to attract more consumers, security is the precondition. We must work together to crack down on fraud, sales of fake and shoddy products online, and theft of trade secrets.
To conclude, let me emphasize one point. Just now a few business leaders have asked questions and introduced their businesses. I hope all the delegates here and the media will pay attention not just to the questions they asked and the answers I gave, but also to what their businesses have achieved in the Chinese market and their support for China's modernization. Thank you.
Professor Schwab:
We should be very grateful to the Premier for being here at this dialogue and for having shared with us his insights and many specific policies and measures, particularly some vivid examples. We also want to express our appreciation to the participation of such a prominent government delegation which has accompanied you, Mr. Premier. And we wish the Chinese government all the best in the implementation of those strategies. And you can be assured that you have the goodwill of all those here, and you have the strong commitment of the World Economic Forum to contribute to the success of the development of China."
"BEIJING, May 14 (Xinhua) -- Following is the full text of the keynote speech given by Chinese President Xi Jinping at the opening ceremony of the Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation:
Work Together to Build the Silk Road Economic Belt and The 21st Century Maritime Silk Road
Speech by H.E. Xi Jinping
President of the People's Republic of China
At the Opening Ceremony of
The Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation
14 May 2017
Distinguished Heads of State and Government,
Heads of International Organizations,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Dear Friends,
In this lovely season of early Summer when every living thing is full of energy, I wish to welcome all of you, distinguished guests representing over 100 countries, to attend this important forum on the Belt and Road Initiative held in Beijing. This is indeed a gathering of great minds. In the coming two days, I hope that by engaging in full exchanges of views, we will contribute to pursuing the Belt and Road Initiative, a project of the century, so that it will benefit people across the world.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Dear Friends,
Over 2,000 years ago, our ancestors, trekking across vast steppes and deserts, opened the transcontinental passage connecting Asia, Europe and Africa, known today as the Silk Road. Our ancestors, navigating rough seas, created sea routes linking the East with the West, namely, the maritime Silk Road. These ancient silk routes opened windows of friendly engagement among nations, adding a splendid chapter to the history of human progress. The thousand-year-old "gilt bronze silkworm" displayed at China's Shaanxi History Museum and the Belitung shipwreck discovered in Indonesia bear witness to this exciting period of history.
Spanning thousands of miles and years, the ancient silk routes embody the spirit of peace and cooperation, openness and inclusiveness, mutual learning and mutual benefit. The Silk Road spirit has become a great heritage of human civilization.
-- Peace and cooperation. In China's Han Dynasty around 140 B.C., Zhang Qian, a royal emissary, left Chang'an, capital of the Han Dynasty. He traveled westward on a mission of peace and opened an overland route linking the East and the West, a daring undertaking which came to be known as Zhang Qian's journey to the Western regions. Centuries later, in the years of Tang, Song and Yuan Dynasties, such silk routes, both over land and at sea, boomed. Great adventurers, including Du Huan of China, Marco Polo of Italy and ibn Batutah of Morocco, left their footprints along these ancient routes. In the early 15th century, Zheng He, the famous Chinese navigator in the Ming Dynasty, made seven voyages to the Western Seas, a feat which still is remembered today. These pioneers won their place in history not as conquerors with warships, guns or swords. Rather, they are remembered as friendly emissaries leading camel caravans and sailing treasure-loaded ships. Generation after generation, the silk routes travelers have built a bridge for peace and East-West cooperation.
-- Openness and inclusiveness. The ancient silk routes spanned the valleys of the Nile, the Tigris and Euphrates, the Indus and Ganges and the Yellow and Yangtze Rivers. They connected the birthplaces of the Egyptian, Babylonian, Indian and Chinese civilizations as well as the lands of Buddhism, Christianity and Islam and homes of people of different nationalities and races. These routes enabled people of various civilizations, religions and races to interact with and embrace each other with open mind. In the course of exchange, they fostered a spirit of mutual respect and were engaged in a common endeavor to pursue prosperity. Today, ancient cities of Jiuquan, Dunhuang, Tulufan, Kashi, Samarkand, Baghdad and Constantinople as well as ancient ports of Ningbo, Quanzhou, Guangzhou, Beihai, Colombo, Jeddah and Alexandria stand as living monuments to these past interactions. This part of history shows that civilization thrives with openness and nations prosper through exchange.
-- Mutual learning. The ancient silk routes were not for trade only, they boosted flow of knowledge as well. Through these routes, Chinese silk, porcelain, lacquerwork and ironware were shipped to the West, while pepper, flax, spices, grape and pomegranate entered China. Through these routes, Buddhism, Islam and Arab astronomy, calendar and medicine found their way to China, while China's four great inventions and silkworm breeding spread to other parts of the world. More importantly, the exchange of goods and know-how spurred new ideas. For example, Buddhism originated in India, blossomed in China and was enriched in Southeast Asia. Confucianism, which was born in China, gained appreciation by European thinkers such as Leibniz and Voltaire. Herein lies the appeal of mutual learning.
-- Mutual benefit. The ancient silk routes witnessed the bustling scenes of visits and trade over land and ships calling at ports. Along these major arteries of interaction, capital, technology and people flowed freely, and goods, resources and benefits were widely shared. The ancient prosperous cities of Alma-Ata, Samarkand and Chang'an and ports of Sur and Guangzhou thrived, so did the Roman Empire as well as Parthia and Kushan Kingdoms. The Han and Tang Dynasties of China entered the golden age. The ancient silk routes brought prosperity to these regions and boosted their development.
History is our best teacher. The glory of the ancient silk routes shows that geographical distance is not insurmountable. If we take the first courageous step towards each other, we can embark on a path leading to friendship, shared development, peace, harmony and a better future.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Dear Friends,
From the historical perspective, humankind has reached an age of great progress, great transformation and profound changes. In this increasingly multi-polar, economically globalized, digitized and culturally diversified world, the trend toward peace and development becomes stronger, and reform and innovation are gaining momentum. Never have we seen such close interdependence among countries as today, such fervent desire of people for a better life, and never have we had so many means to prevail over difficulties.
In terms of reality, we find ourselves in a world fraught with challenges. Global growth requires new drivers, development needs to be more inclusive and balanced, and the gap between the rich and the poor needs to be narrowed. Hotspots in some regions are causing instability and terrorism is rampant. Deficit in peace, development and governance poses a daunting challenge to mankind. This is the issue that has always been on my mind.
In the autumn of 2013, respectively in Kazakhstan and Indonesia, I proposed the building of the Silk Road Economic Belt and the 21st Century Maritime Silk Road, which I call the Belt and Road Initiative. As a Chinese saying goes, "Peaches and plums do not speak, but they are so attractive that a path is formed below the trees." Four years on, over 100 countries and international organizations have supported and got involved in this initiative. Important resolutions passed by the UN General Assembly and Security Council contain reference to it. Thanks to our efforts, the vision of the Belt and Road Initiative is becoming a reality and bearing rich fruit.
-- These four years have seen deepened policy connectivity. I have said on many occasions that the pursuit of the Belt and Road Initiative is not meant to reinvent the wheel. Rather, it aims to complement the development strategies of countries involved by leveraging their comparative strengths. We have enhanced coordination with the policy initiatives of relevant countries, such as the Eurasian Economic Union of Russia, the Master Plan on ASEAN Connectivity, the Bright Road initiative of Kazakhstan, the Middle Corridor initiative of Turkey, the Development Road initiative of Mongolia, the Two Corridors, One Economic Circle initiative of Viet Nam, the Northern Powerhouse initiative of the UK and the Amber Road initiative of Poland. We are also promoting complementarity between China's development plan and those of Laos, Cambodia, Myanmar, Hungary and other countries. China has signed cooperation agreements with over 40 countries and international organizations and carried out framework cooperation on production capacity with more than 30 countries. During the forum, a number of cooperation agreements on policy connectivity and action plans will be signed. We will also launch Belt and Road cooperation initiative on trade connectivity together with some 60 countries and international organizations. Such policy connectivity will produce a multiplying effect on cooperation among the parties involved.
-- These four years have seen enhanced infrastructure connectivity. Building roads and railways creates prosperity in all sectors. We have accelerated the building of Jakarta-Bandung high-speed railway, China-Laos railway, Addis Ababa-Djibouti railway and Hungary-Serbia railway, and upgraded Gwadar and Piraeus ports in cooperation with relevant countries. A large number of connectivity projects are also in the pipeline. Today, a multi-dimensional infrastructure network is taking shape, one that is underpinned by economic corridors such as China-Pakistan Economic Corridor, China-Mongolia-Russia Economic Corridor and the New Eurasian Continental Bridge, featuring land-sea-air transportation routes and information expressway and supported by major railway, port and pipeline projects.
-- These four years have seen increased trade connectivity. China has worked with other countries involved in the Belt and Road Initiative to promote trade and investment facilitation and improve business environment. I was told that for Kazakhstan and other Central Asian countries alone, customs clearance time for agricultural produce exporting to China is cut by 90%. Total trade between China and other Belt and Road countries in 2014-2016 has exceeded US$3 trillion, and China's investment in these countries has surpassed US$50 billion. Chinese companies have set up 56 economic cooperation zones in over 20 countries, generating some US$1.1 billion of tax revenue and 180,000 jobs for them.
-- These four years have seen expanded financial connectivity. Financing bottleneck is a key challenge to realizing connectivity. China has engaged in multiple forms of financial cooperation with countries and organizations involved in the Belt and Road Initiative. The Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank has provided US$1.7 billion of loans for 9 projects in Belt and Road participating countries. The Silk Road Fund has made US$4 billion of investment, and the 16+1 financial holding company between China and Central and Eastern European countries has been inaugurated. With distinctive focus, these new financial mechanisms and traditional multilateral financial institutions such as the World Bank complement each other. A multi-tiered Belt and Road financial cooperation network has taken an initial shape.
-- These four years have seen strengthened people-to-people connectivity. Friendship, which derives from close contact between the people, holds the key to sound state-to-state relations. Guided by the Silk Road spirit, we the Belt and Road Initiative participating countries have pulled our efforts to build the educational Silk Road and the health Silk Road, and carried out cooperation in science, education, culture, health and people-to-people exchange. Such cooperation has helped lay a solid popular and social foundation for pursuing the Belt and Road Initiative. Every year, the Chinese government provides 10,000 government scholarships to the relevant countries. China's local governments have also set up special Silk Road scholarships to encourage international cultural and educational exchanges. Projects of people-to-people cooperation such as Silk Road culture year, tourism year, art festival, film and TV project, seminar and think tank dialogue are flourishing. These interactions have brought our people increasingly closer.
These fruitful outcomes show that the Belt and Road Initiative responds to the trend of the times, conforms to the law of development, and meets the people's interests. It surely has broad prospects.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Dear Friends,
As we often say in China, "The beginning is the most difficult part." A solid first step has been taken in pursuing the Belt and Road Initiative. We should build on the sound momentum generated to steer the Belt and Road Initiative toward greater success. In pursuing this endeavor, we should be guided by the following principles:
First, we should build the Belt and Road into a road for peace. The ancient silk routes thrived in times of peace, but lost vigor in times of war. The pursuit of the Belt and Road Initiative requires a peaceful and stable environment. We should foster a new type of international relations featuring win-win cooperation; and we should forge partnerships of dialogue with no confrontation and of friendship rather than alliance. All countries should respect each other's sovereignty, dignity and territorial integrity, each other's development paths and social systems, and each other's core interests and major concerns.
Some regions along the ancient Silk Road used to be a land of milk and honey. Yet today, these places are often associated with conflict, turbulence, crisis and challenge. Such state of affairs should not be allowed to continue. We should foster the vision of common, comprehensive, cooperative and sustainable security, and create a security environment built and shared by all. We should work to resolve hotspot issues through political means, and promote mediation in the spirit of justice. We should intensify counter-terrorism efforts, address both its symptoms and root causes, and strive to eradicate poverty, backwardness and social injustice.
Second, we should build the Belt and Road into a road of prosperity. Development holds the master key to solving all problems. In pursuing the Belt and Road Initiative, we should focus on the fundamental issue of development, release the growth potential of various countries and achieve economic integration and interconnected development and deliver benefits to all.
Industries are the foundation of economy. We should deepen industrial cooperation so that industrial development plans of different countries will complement and reinforce each other. Focus should be put on launching major projects. We should strengthen international cooperation on production capacity and equipment manufacturing, and seize new development opportunities presented by the new industrial revolution to foster new businesses and maintain dynamic growth.
Finance is the lifeblood of modern economy. Only when the blood circulates smoothly can one grow. We should establish a stable and sustainable financial safeguard system that keeps risks under control, create new models of investment and financing, encourage greater cooperation between government and private capital and build a diversified financing system and a multi-tiered capital market. We should also develop inclusive finance and improve financial services networks.
Infrastructure connectivity is the foundation of development through cooperation. We should promote land, maritime, air and cyberspace connectivity, concentrate our efforts on key passageways, cities and projects and connect networks of highways, railways and sea ports. The goal of building six major economic corridors under the Belt and Road Initiative has been set, and we should endeavor to meet it. We need to seize opportunities presented by the new round of change in energy mix and the revolution in energy technologies to develop global energy interconnection and achieve green and low-carbon development. We should improve trans-regional logistics network and promote connectivity of policies, rules and standards so as to provide institutional safeguards for enhancing connectivity.
Third, we should build the Belt and Road into a road of opening up. Opening up brings progress while isolation results in backwardness. For a country, opening up is like the struggle of a chrysalis breaking free from its cacoon. There will be short-term pains, but such pains will create a new life. The Belt and Road Initiative should be an open one that will achieve both economic growth and balanced development.
We should build an open platform of cooperation and uphold and grow an open world economy. We should jointly create an environment that will facilitate opening up and development, establish a fair, equitable and transparent system of international trade and investment rules and boost the orderly flow of production factors, efficient resources allocation and full market integration. We welcome efforts made by other countries to grow open economies based on their national conditions, participate in global governance and provide public goods. Together, we can build a broad community of shared interests.
Trade is an important engine driving growth. We should embrace the outside world with an open mind, uphold the multilateral trading regime, advance the building of free trade areas and promote liberalization and facilitation of trade and investment. Of course, we should also focus on resolving issues such as imbalances in development, difficulties in governance, digital divide and income disparity and make economic globalization open, inclusive, balanced and beneficial to all.
Fourth, we should build the Belt and Road into a road of innovation. Innovation is an important force powering development. The Belt and Road Initiative is new by nature and we need to encourage innovation in pursuing this initiative.
We should pursue innovation-driven development and intensify cooperation in frontier areas such as digital economy, artificial intelligence, nanotechnology and quantum computing, and advance the development of big data, cloud computing and smart cities so as to turn them into a digital silk road of the 21st century. We should spur the full integration of science and technology into industries and finance, improve the environment for innovation and pool resources for innovation. We should create space and build workshops for young people of various countries to cultivate entrepreneurship in this age of the internet and help realize their dreams.
We should pursue the new vision of green development and a way of life and work that is green, low-carbon, circular and sustainable. Efforts should be made to strengthen cooperation in ecological and environmental protection and build a sound ecosystem so as to realize the goals set by the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
Fifth, we should build the Belt and Road into a road connecting different civilizations. In pursuing the Belt and Road Initiative, we should ensure that when it comes to different civilizations, exchange will replace estrangement, mutual learning will replace clashes, and coexistence will replace a sense of superiority. This will boost mutual understanding, mutual respect and mutual trust among different countries.
We should establish a multi-tiered mechanism for cultural and people-to-people exchanges, build more cooperation platforms and open more cooperation channels. Educational cooperation should be boosted, more exchange students should be encouraged and the performance of cooperatively run schools should be enhanced. Think tanks should play a better role and efforts should be made to establish think tank networks and partnerships. In the cultural, sports and health sectors, new cooperation models should be created to facilitate projects with concrete benefits. Historical and cultural heritage should be fully tapped to jointly develop tourist products and protect heritage in ways that preserve the distinctive features of the Silk Road. We should strengthen exchanges between parliaments, political parties and non-governmental organizations of different countries as well as between women, youths and people with disabilities with a view to achieving inclusive development. We should also strengthen international counter-corruption cooperation so that the Belt and Road will be a road with high ethical standards.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Dear Friends,
China has reached a new starting point in its development endeavors. Guided by the vision of innovative, coordinated, green, open and inclusive development, we will adapt to and steer the new normal of economic development and seize opportunities it presents. We will actively promote supply-side structural reform to achieve sustainable development, inject strong impetus into the Belt and Road Initiative and create new opportunities for global development.
-- China will enhance friendship and cooperation with all countries involved in the Belt and Road Initiative on the basis of the Five Principles of Peaceful Co-existence. We are ready to share practices of development with other countries, but we have no intention to interfere in other countries' internal affairs, export our own social system and model of development, or impose our own will on others. In pursuing the Belt and Road Initiative, we will not resort to outdated geopolitical maneuvering. What we hope to achieve is a new model of win-win cooperation. We have no intention to form a small group detrimental to stability, what we hope to create is a big family of harmonious co-existence.
-- China has reached practical cooperation agreements with many countries on pursuing the Belt and Road Initiative. These agreements cover not only projects of hardware connectivity, like transport, infrastructure and energy, but also software connectivity, involving telecommunications, customs and quarantine inspection. The agreements also include plans and projects for cooperation in economy and trade, industry, e-commerce, marine and green economy. The Chinese railway authorities will sign agreements with their counterparts of related countries to deepen cooperation on China-Europe regular railway cargo service. We will work to launch these cooperation projects at an early date and see that they deliver early benefits.
-- China will scale up financing support for the Belt and Road Initiative by contributing an additional RMB 100 billion to the Silk Road Fund, and we encourage financial institutions to conduct overseas RMB fund business with an estimated amount of about RMB 300 billion. The China Development Bank and the Export-Import Bank of China will set up special lending schemes respectively worth RMB 250 billion equivalent and RMB 130 billion equivalent to support Belt and Road cooperation on infrastructure, industrial capacity and financing. We will also work with the AIIB, the BRICS New Development Bank, the World Bank and other multilateral development institutions to support Belt and Road related projects. We will work with other parties concerned to jointly formulate guidelines for financing the Belt and Road related development projects.
-- China will endeavor to build a win-win business partnership with other countries participating in the Belt and Road Initiative, enhance trade and investment facilitation with them, and build a Belt and Road free trade network. These efforts are designed to promote growth both in our respective regions and globally. During this forum, China will sign business and trade cooperation agreements with over 30 countries and enter into consultation on free trade agreements with related countries. China will host the China International Import Expo starting from 2018.
-- China will enhance cooperation on innovation with other countries. We will launch the Belt and Road Science, Technology and Innovation Cooperation Action Plan, which consists of the Science and Technology People-to-People Exchange Initiative, the Joint Laboratory Initiative, the Science Park Cooperation Initiative and the Technology Transfer Initiative. In the coming five years, we will offer 2,500 short-term research visits to China for young foreign scientists, train 5,000 foreign scientists, engineers and managers, and set up 50 joint laboratories. We will set up a big data service platform on ecological and environmental protection. We propose the establishment of an international coalition for green development on the Belt and Road, and we will provide support to related countries in adapting to climate change.
-- In the coming three years, China will provide assistance worth RMB 60 billion to developing countries and international organizations participating in the Belt and Road Initiative to launch more projects to improve people's well-being. We will provide emergency food aid worth RMB 2 billion to developing countries along the Belt and Road and make an additional contribution of US$1 billion to the Assistance Fund for South-South Cooperation. China will launch 100 "happy home" projects, 100 poverty alleviation projects and 100 health care and rehabilitation projects in countries along the Belt and Road. China will provide relevant international organizations with US$1 billion to implement cooperation projects that will benefit the countries along the Belt and Road.
-- China will put in place the following mechanisms to boost Belt and Road cooperation: a liaison office for the Forum's follow-up activities, the Research Center for the Belt and Road Financial and Economic Development, the Facilitating Center for Building the Belt and Road, the Multilateral Development Financial Cooperation Center in cooperation with multilateral development banks, and an IMF-China Capacity Building Center. We will also develop a network for cooperation among the NGOs in countries along the Belt and Road as well as new people-to-people exchange platforms such as a Belt and Road news alliance and a music education alliance.
The Belt and Road Initiative is rooted in the ancient Silk Road. It focuses on the Asian, European and African continents, but is also open to all other countries. All countries, from either Asia, Europe, Africa or the Americas, can be international cooperation partners of the Belt and Road Initiative. The pursuit of this initiative is based on extensive consultation and its benefits will be shared by us all.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Dear Friends,
An ancient Chinese saying goes, "A long journey can be covered only by taking one step at a time". Similarly, there is an Arab proverb which says that the Pyramid was built by piling one stone on another. In Europe, there is also the saying that "Rome wasn't built in a day." The Belt and Road Initiative is a great undertaking which requires dedicated efforts. Let us pursue this initiative step by step and deliver outcome one by one. By doing so, we will bring true benefit to both the world and all our people!
In conclusion, I wish the Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation a full success!
Thank you!"
"New York, 28 April 2017
Mr. President,
The continued escalation of tensions on the Korean Peninsula in the recent period has been a source of deep concern for the international community. If the issue of the Peninsula cannot be put under effective control, and should unintended incidents occur, the situation is highly likely to take a drastic turn and spiral out of control. There is no lack of such painful lessons in history. We must sound the alarm now. In view of this, today's Session at the Security Council is indeed necessary. We hope it will lead to consensus on more strictly and fully implementing DPRK-related Security Council resolutions, intensifying efforts to promote dialogue for peace, and bringing the nuclear issue on the Korean Peninsula back to the track of negotiated resolution.
China's position regarding the nuclear issue on the Peninsula is clear-cut. No matter how the situation may evolve, we must work steadfastly in the following two basic directions.
First, we must stay committed to the long-held goal of denuclearization. Denuclearization is the basic precondition for long-term peace and stability on the Peninsula and a natural step for safeguarding the international nuclear non-proliferation regime. No matter what happens, we should never waver in our commitment to this goal.
To this end, China resolutely opposes the DPRK's research, development and possession of nuclear weapons, and firmly implements all DPRK-related Security Council resolutions. We urge the DPRK to stop its nuclear and missile development activities, come back to its denuclearization commitment and honor its denuclearization obligations. Meanwhile, we call on other parties concerned to demonstrate political wisdom, make the political decision and join hands in working constructively toward the denuclearization of the Peninsula.
Second, we must stay committed to the path of dialogue and negotiation. The use of force does not resolve differences, and will only lead to bigger disasters. Dialogue and negotiation is the only viable means for a solution. It is also the best option for all parties. Our past experience of tackling the nuclear issue on the Peninsula shows, whenever there were dialogue and negotiation, the situation on the Peninsula would maintain overall stability and progress in denuclearization would be possible.
During the five years between 2003 and 2007 when the parties were engaged in dialogue and negotiation, three joint documents were agreed. In particular, the September 19th Joint Statement of 2005 set out the roadmap for the DPRK's abandonment of all nuclear programs and the realization of peace on the Peninsula. The Joint Statement has remained a milestone agreement to this day, and has been acknowledged and reaffirmed by all DPRK-related resolutions of the Security Council.
In contrast, since dialogue and negotiation broke off in 2008, the situation on the Peninsula has been mired in a downward spiral, and the DPRK has accelerated its nuclear and missile development process by successively conducting four nuclear tests and dozens of missile launches. In view of this, we hope all parties could dedicate greater efforts to seeking a political settlement through dialogue and consultation as required by the Security Council resolutions.
Mr. President,
China is not a focal point in the Peninsula issue. The key to solving the nuclear issue on the Peninsula does not lie in the hands of the Chinese side. That said, as a close neighbor to the Peninsula and well aware of its responsibilities for peace on the Peninsula and stability in the wider region, China has over the years made unremitting efforts and played a unique role in promoting a negotiated solution of the issue. It was through China's efforts and the support of all parties that the Three-Party Talks on the Peninsula nuclear issue was expanded to the Six-Party Talks. Under the current circumstances, China is still ready to work with all parties to make new contribution to the resolution of the nuclear issue on the Peninsula.
In view of recent developments on the Peninsula, China has put forward the proposal of "suspension for suspension", which builds on the "dual-track" approach we proposed earlier. The "dual-track" approach aims to promote parallel progress in denuclearization and the establishment of a peace mechanism on the Peninsula in a synchronized and reciprocal manner, ultimately achieving both goals simultaneously. The "suspension for suspension" proposal, which calls for the suspension of nuclear and missile activities by the DPRK and the suspension of massive military exercises by the US and the ROK, seeks to bring the two sides back to the negotiating table, thus initiating the first step of the "dual-track" approach.
China's above-mentioned proposals help to promote short-term and long-term goals in a complementary and mutually reinforcing way. While they are designed to address the most pressing concerns of the parties, they also help pave the way for denuclearization. They are consistent with the requirement of the Security Council resolutions and the fundamental interests of all parties, including the US and the DPRK. The proposals are objective, fair, reasonable and feasible, and are gaining understanding and support from more and more countries.
Some countries may still have doubts about these proposals. Yet the point I want to make is this: The most urgent task at hand is to halt the DPRK's nuclear and missile programs; To achieve this, it is worthwhile to put aside the contention over who should take the first step and who is right, who is wrong. Rather, we should start from reaching for low-hanging fruits, defuse any flashpoint endangering peace on the Peninsula and create conditions for stability in the region.
I also want to stress here that the current state of the Peninsula issue cannot be blamed on any single party. Nor should any party be asked to take all responsibilities for resolving the issue. As President Xi Jinping stated, only with all parties shouldering their due responsibilities and working in the same direction, will there be an early solution to the nuclear issue on the Peninsula. We call on all parties, especially the DPRK and the US as directly concerned parties in the Peninsula nuclear issue, to demonstrate sincerity for dialogue and restart the dialogue process. We also look to the Security Council to build up consensus and convey a more unified message in this regard. In the meantime, China will be open to all useful proposals from the parties. All ideas conducive to resuming dialogue and negotiation, to denuclearization and peace and stability on the Peninsula can be explored and discussed.
Colleagues,
As we meet for this Ministerial Session, China calls on all parties to make concerted efforts to address two urgent tasks.
First, we must cool down tensions on the Peninsula as quickly as possible. Given the grave situation there, China strongly urges all parties to remain cool-headed and exercise restraint, and avoid provocative rhetoric or actions that would lead to miscalculation. I want to stress that, there isn't and should not be any double standard in this regard. We ask the DPRK to observe the Security Council resolutions and stop advancing its nuclear and missile development. At the same time, we ask the US, the ROK and other parties to refrain from conducting or even expanding military exercises and deployment against the DPRK.
Second, all parties should observe and implement DPRK-related Security Council resolutions in their entirety. In addition to imposing sanctions on the DPRK, the resolutions adopted to date also call for the resumption of the Six-Party Talks, avoidance of escalating tensions and commitment to resolution through dialogue. In other words, carrying out sanctions and promoting resumption of talks are both part of the Security Council resolutions, which should not be implemented in a partial or selective way as one sees fit.
As a response to the accelerated progress of DPRK's nuclear and missile development, the international community needs to step up non-proliferation efforts. Likewise, to prevent the escalation of tensions on the Peninsula, the parties should step up efforts to promote dialogue for peace. Stepping up efforts on both fronts will help facilitate the peaceful settlement of the nuclear issue on the Peninsula. The Chinese word for "crisis" contains two characters meaning "danger" and "opportunity". It shows if one can seize the opportunity amidst danger, a crisis may be turned into an opportunity. In China's view, now is the time to seriously consider resuming talks.
Last but certainly not least, I want to reiterate China's firm opposition to the US deployment of THAAD anti-missile system in the ROK. Such a move seriously undermines the strategic security of China and other countries in the region, and damages the trust and cooperation among the parties on the Peninsula issue. It is neither helpful for achieving denuclearization nor conducive to long-term stability on the Peninsula. China once again urges the relevant parties to immediately stop the deployment process. Let us make joint efforts to promote denuclearization and uphold peace on the Peninsula on the basis of mutual respect and mutual trust.
Thank you, Mr. President."
"The Great Hall of the People, 15th March, 2017
Premier Li Keqiang:
The moderator told me that some of the journalists came to the Great Hall of the People for this press conference as early as two to three hours in advance. This shows how hard you work and how committed you are to this profession. I want to thank you for your efforts in covering the "Two Sessions" this year. Since we only have limited time, I suggest we get the questions started right away.
CNN:
President Trump has been consistently critical of China, claiming that it's stealing US jobs, manipulating its currency and not doing enough for regional security. Now we are hearing that the US-China talk of the highest level may take place as early as next month. We have a good idea of what the US wants from China, but what does China want from the US? What is China's bottom line for a healthy, sustainable Sino-US relationship? Are you confident that you can achieve that or will it be a difficult process?
Premier Li:
Your question reminds me of my trip to New York last September for the UN General Assembly meeting and other high-level events. I was asked a question about China-US ties following a speech at the New York Economic Club. It was a time when the US presidential campaign was turning white-hot. I was asked whether there will be significant change in China-US ties when a new president is elected. My reply was that China-US relations have been going forward in spite of twists and turns in the past decades. So I am optimistic about the future of this relationship no matter who gets elected. President Trump has since been elected, and President Xi Jinping has talked with him over the phone. The two presidents agreed to work together for further progress in China-US relations. President Trump and senior officials from the new US administration have explicitly reaffirmed continued US adherence to the one-China policy, which forms the political foundation of China-US relations. This foundation has remained firm and unshaken despite changing circumstances, and it would always remain so in the future. With the right political foundation in place, China-US cooperation enjoys bright prospects.
We feel optimistic about the future of China-US relations on the strength of the extensive common interests that have bound the two countries together in the course of several decades of our diplomatic relations. It is true that there are some differences between the two countries over issues like jobs, exchange rate and security. What's important for both countries is to stay focused on the overall interests, and enhance dialogue and communication to deepen mutual understanding. Foreign relations departments of our countries are now engaged in discussions on a face-to-face meeting between the two presidents. This relationship is crucial not just for the interests of our countries, but also for regional and global peace, security and stability. We must work together to take it forward continuously.
As for China-US trade, I want to share with you what an NPC deputy from a foreign trade company told me during this year's Two Sessions. He said that although China runs a surplus in trade with the US, for his company, over 90% of the profits goes to US firms, and the profit margin of his business is a mere 2 to 3 percent. Statistics show that last year, trade and mutual investment between the two countries created up to one million jobs in the United States. We may have different statistical methods, but I believe whatever differences we may have, we can always sit down and talk about them, and work together to find solutions. And for those differences that cannot be resolved for the time being, they can be shelved and we may continue to focus on expanding common interests, which I believe is the wise choice. And as we do so, the differences will account for a lesser and lesser proportion in overall China-US relations.
I also want to cite a recent article written by a well-reputed international think-tank. It says that should a trade war break out between China and the United States, it would be the foreign-invested companies in China, particularly US firms that would bear the brunt of it. We don't want to see a trade war. A trade war won't make our trade fairer. It will only hurt both sides. I understand the whole world is paying close attention to China-US relations. China hopes that no matter what bumps this relationship may run into, it will continue to move forward in a positive direction. Both our peoples are great people and we believe that we have the wisdom to properly manage differences. There is the need and capacity on both sides to expand common interests.
China National Radio:
China's economic growth has been declining in recent years and we have seen that the projected target of GDP growth in 2017 has been trimmed to about 6.5%. Will this adversely affect the global economy? Some people say that China's economy still faces a lot of risks, especially in the financial sector. Do you think that China's economy will remain an engine driving global economy when global economic growth remains sluggish?
Premier Li:
I read some foreign media commentary describing the projected GDP growth target of about 6.5% this year as moderate downward adjustment. In fact, 6.5% growth is not a low speed and it would not be easy to meet this target. I can't help but recall a martial art performance I saw at Shaolin Temple, during which a child monk can do over a dozen somersaults at one go quite easily, but several such consecutive somersaults for an adult monk would be quite an accomplishment due to their different size. 6.5% of GDP growth in 2017, if achieved, would generate more additional economic output than last year, as this is a growth attained on the basis of RMB 74 trillion yuan, or US$11 trillion in GDP. And this growth is projected to generate over 11 million new urban jobs. The measures we take are consistent with the laws of economics, and moreover, slower growth can help us better focus on enhancing the quality and performance of China's economy. I don't think China's contribution to global growth will come down. We believe China's economy will continue to be a strong driving force in the face of sluggish world economic recovery.
With respect to risks, we are seeing growing uncertainties in the international economic and political landscape. These are the risks on the external front. As for China, stalled development presents the biggest risk. So it is essential that we maintain steady, medium-high growth and that, in itself, is China's contribution to global stability. We take very seriously the risks we face on the domestic front, including the financial sector. We will take prompt and targeted measures to prevent them from spreading. I should point out that China's financial system is generally secure and we do not foresee systemic risks. We still have a good reserve of policy options and instruments at our disposal. Our deficit to GDP ratio is below 3%. The capital adequacy ratio of commercial banks in China is 13% and their provision coverage ratio is 176%, both above the international standards for financial security. As the express train of China's economy continues to roll along at medium-high speed, we need to fasten our seat belt and ward off acute outbreaks of risks. Still less will we allow regional or systemic risks to break out.
Bloomberg:
As the United States pulls back from its roles in global trade deals, such as the TPP, China seems poised to take the leadership role. You and President Xi have become advocates of free trade, open economy and globalization. At the same time, China has come under criticism for unfair trade practices and not opening its economy fast enough. Can you say what steps you are taking in the next year to convince the rest of the world that China is committed to free trade and an open economy?
Premier Li:
Although globalization has encountered some bumps in the road, China has consistently upheld economic globalization and free trade. I believe such a position in itself is a good indication of China's commitment to opening-up. It is fair to say that economic globalization has benefited countries across the world. Some problems may have occurred in this process, for example, with respect to distribution of benefits. But we don't think they are the result of globalization per se but more of an issue of how one responds to it. China is ready to work with other countries to further improve the global governance system. We also believe that economic globalization has been deeply embedded in the global trend of peace, development and cooperation. A closed-door policy or beggar-thy-neighbor approach leads to no solutions.
Like many countries in the world, China has benefited from economic globalization as it has been opening up ever wider to the outside world. China needs to first run its own things well. But the truth is, this cannot be done with our doors shut. Hence we will only pursue greater openness. Naturally opening-up is a gradual process. The important thing is that we have kept moving forward for the past decades.
Last year, China was still the largest recipient of FDI among developing countries and FDI reached US$126 billion. In the World Bank's ease of doing business ranking, China moved up 18 spots in 2016 compared with where it was in 2013. We have launched 11 pilot free trade zones starting from Shanghai, and good experience gained from them will be applied across the country. This year we will hold the Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation and more steps for opening-up will be introduced. We have proposed to many countries the building of free trade zones or the negotiating of investment and trade agreements. These will all contribute to two-way opening-up.
One thing I should point out is that when one opens itself wider and at a higher level, there will be more frictions, but we are confident that their proportion to overall economic links will only get smaller. So China will open at a higher level and remain a popular destination for investment. We welcome other partners to share in China's development opportunities.
As for liberalization of global trade, we believe all countries need to work together to push it forward. The world belongs to us all and we all need to do our part to make things better. We are open-minded toward the various regional trading arrangements, established or proposed, and welcome progress in them. When they concern China and where conditions are in place, we would follow an open-minded approach and we would be ready to work with others to push them forward. But China has no intention to reach beyond its role or get involved where we shouldn't. China will participate in and support all initiatives that will promote the liberalization of global trade. We the Chinese understand that the opportunities of economic globalization must be seized through opening-up. They should not be missed no matter what challenges we may face.
People's Daily:
Mr. Premier, over the past four years, you have been highly focused on the reform to streamline administration and delegate government powers. According to this year's government work report, the target of cutting the items which require the approval of the State Council and State Council ministries by one third before the end of this government's term has been fulfilled ahead of schedule. So what about the remaining two thirds? Will the reform be pushed through, and if so, what specific steps will be taken?
Premier Li:
The central goal of the reform is to transform government functions and balance relations between the government and the market. This reform cannot be accomplished overnight. You are right that my government's target for cutting the number of government review items has already been met. But in this process, we have encountered a variety of issues unexpectedly. In addition to government review and approval items, there are all sorts of procedures requiring administrative permits, certification of qualifications, and payment of all kinds of administrative fees. All these will be subject to reform. The reform will help the government focus on performing its due role more effectively and prevent government from overreaching itself, which has tied down our businesses and hurt government efficiency and credibility. It is a self-imposed reform involving sacrifices on the part of the government. I have all along called for boldness of spirit and decisiveness in action in pushing forward this reform. We will not relent until the job is done, no matter what obstacles or resistance may lie ahead. We should draw confidence from our ample strength and resilience.
Streamlining administration, enhancing oversight where appropriate and improving government services: these three tasks reflect our holistic approach. Streamlining administration frees up government energy to improve compliance oversight and provide better services. By widening market access, we can level the playing field for all market entities. At the same time, we must seriously deal with any violation of laws and regulations, such as making and selling fake or substandard goods, cheating at the marketplace, violating intellectual property rights, as well as issues of great concern to the general public such as food and drug safety and the environment. Besides, the government will leverage the Internet to make public services more accessible to the people. The government will also focus more on poverty alleviation, development of inner cities, providing compulsory education, meeting basic health care needs and all other areas that concern people's livelihood.
In a nutshell, the government should send a resounding message of "yes" to law-abiding market entities, give the green light to hard-working entrepreneurs and innovators, and show a yellow card or even a red card to violators of laws and regulations.
Nikkei:
US Secretary of State Tillerson is visiting Japan starting from today and then he is coming to China and the ROK. People believe that one of the key topics for discussion is the Korean Peninsula issue. We have seen that recently the DPRK has once again test-fired missiles and has been pushing forward its nuclear weapons program. All these have heightened tensions in Northeast Asia. I would like to ask what steps will China take to help ease the situation, and how will China work with Japan and other countries concerned to resolve the Korean Peninsula nuclear issue?
Premier:
China is committed to the denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula, to peace and stability there and to resolving issues through dialogue. That has been China's consistent and clear-cut position. With respect to UN Security Council resolutions, China has all along made clear its commitment to and fully complied with these resolutions. China is also a staunch supporter of the international nuclear non-proliferation regime. It is true that recently the situation on the Korean Peninsula and in Northeast Asia more generally has become tense. Tensions may lead to conflict, which would harm all parties involved. We hope that all the parties concerned will work together to de-escalate the situation, get issues back on the track of dialogue and try to find lasting solutions. It's common sense that no one wants to see turbulence at his doorstep.
CCTV:
You often say that employment is the foundation of people's livelihood. And of all the economic indicators, it is the statistics concerning jobs that you care the most about. In the government work report, you pointed out that this year, the government may face a more daunting task of providing employment. My question is, do you expect large scale unemployment in particular sectors this year?
Premier Li:
If you read the government work report carefully, you will notice that we have adjusted a target upward among all the major economic and social development targets for 2017, namely we will create over 11 million new urban jobs, one million more on top of the target we set for 2016. The fact is, we have projected around 6.5% GDP growth mainly to support job creation. Employment is of paramount importance for such a large country as China with 1.3 billion-plus people. Employment is the foundation of economic development. It creates wealth and is a major source of household income. Over the past four years, we have pursued a proactive employment policy and created over 13 million new urban jobs every year for four years in a roll. This year, we will continue to give high priority to employment. The goal is to achieve fairly sufficient employment and keep unemployment at a low level.
In the past several years, record numbers of job-seekers have entered the labor force, which is a big challenge for us. This year, we are going to have 7.95 million college graduates, the highest number in history. Five million will graduate from vocational schools. And several hundred thousand workers will be laid off in the process of cutting overcapacity.
The government's job is not to hand out the "iron rice bowl" or permanent jobs to the people, but to create enabling conditions for the people to use their own ingenuity and hard work to create or secure "gold rice bowls" so to speak. The employment rate in the past years has been fairly high because we have leveraged the enthusiasm for entrepreneurial and innovation activities. I would encourage the media, in particular foreign media, to report the fact that Chinese jobs are mainly created by the Chinese themselves.
The Chinese government has the ability to support more job creation. There will not be, nor will we allow mass unemployment. For those who have difficulty getting jobs or making ends meet, the government will do its part and provide for their basic needs.
Lianhe Zaobao:
Mr. Premier, this year is the last year in the term of this government. My question is, what has been the most important achievement of the past four years? And what has been the greatest challenge?
Premier Li:
It's a short but big question. The most important achievement of the past four years is that under the leadership of the CPC Central Committee with Comrade Xi Jinping at its core and with the joint efforts of our people, we have developed new approaches to macroeconomic management and maintained steady economic performance within the proper parameters and a medium-high growth rate. The variation in annual growth rate, for example, is only about one percentage point. We have achieved such steady growth not by resorting to massive, economy-wide stimulus, but by industrial and consumption upgrading, which has contributed to the improvement of China's economic structure. We have encouraged the new drivers of economic growth to take the place of traditional ones. Most importantly, we have generated as many as 50 million new urban jobs.
Over the years, some people have predicted, once and again, that the Chinese economy will see a "hard landing". The truth is, we managed a medium-high growth rate last year in spite of the fact that world economic and trade growth hit a seven-year low. I hope this will put an end to any more predictions of a hard landing. The Chinese economy will continue to enjoy medium-high growth and move to a medium-high level.
At the same time, we also face many challenges and difficulties, hence the need for continuous reform. This is the biggest challenge for us. The reform to streamline administration, enhance oversight and provide better services is bound to upset vested interests; it also demands a fundamental change in our mindset. There should be no more arbitrary use of government power, the government must not overreach, and the room for rent-seeking must be squeezed. This is easier said than done. We must make sure that all levels of the government move in lockstep to travel the last mile and get rid of any remaining obstacles.
During an inspection trip, I was shown that, instead of requiring a stamp of approval from 108 government departments, the streamlined process required only one. With China being so big, there may be similar situations of excessive requirements for government approval elsewhere. You may remember that a few years ago, a delegate at the Two Sessions produced a so-called Long-March matrix, showing all the intricate procedures for administrative approval. Although things have been streamlined significantly and the long march has been substantially reduced, it's still too much. Let me repeat that no matter what obstacle may lie ahead, we are determined to push the reform through. The goal is to unleash and grow productive forces, bring out the initiative of the people, and deliver greater benefits to the general public. After all, governance is all about letting go of narrow departmental interests for the greater good and always responding to the people's call.
Shenzhen News:
Mr. Premier, last October, you attended the National Week of Mass Entrepreneurship and Innovation in Shenzhen. It is estimated that as many as 500,000 people participated in the national week's activities, making it a very popular event. Over the past year, this initiative of mass entrepreneurship and innovation has caught on, and the sharing economy has seen rapid expansion. But some people may see these developments in a different way. Mr. Premier, do you think this public enthusiasm for entrepreneurship and innovation will continue?
Premier Li:
We believe that our initiative of mass entrepreneurship and innovation is a response to the call of this age of economic globalization and Internet Plus. The government's further reform of streamlining administration and delegating powers is also designed to boost this public enthusiasm for business start-ups and innovation. Over the past three years and more, on an average daily basis, more than 40,000 market entities have got registered, adding up to 10 million every year. When I share this figure with foreign leaders, they were truly amazed as this is equivalent to the total number of SMEs in their countries. Not only SMEs are doing entrepreneurial and innovation activities. Big companies are actively engaged in this too. They have opened up vast online makerspaces to enable a matching between the innovative capabilities of their employees with the demands of customers in the marketplace. This initiative runs through the development of primary, secondary and tertiary industries and involves businesses of all sizes. So I believe it will continue to thrive.
This initiative has generated a great deal of jobs. It is also an important means to implement the strategy of innovation-driven development. This initiative is a process of reform too because it captures the most important element in productive forces, that is, human resources. It helps bring out the wisdom and motivation of each individual and gives them an opportunity for a fair shot at success and upward mobility. It has also boosted the development of many new production and business models, like the "Internet Plus" and sharing economy. Some of the new business models appear in the synergy between old and new growth drivers. Others are the result of traditional drivers of growth being given renewed life with the application of new technologies. This initiative has, in a nutshell, responded well to market demand and individualistic needs of our customers.
The growing new business models have also created pressure on the government to enhance its capability, because after all, many of the forms of business are new things. When it comes to such new things, it's only normal for people to have different views. For the government, it needs to exercise careful regulation in an open-minded and accommodating way to promote their healthy development.
I have all along believed that China's nearly 800 million labor force, including the 170 million who have received higher education or possess high professional skills, represents a tremendous source of wealth and energy and enormous opportunities for China itself and the international market too. The Chinese people are intelligent and hard-working and they have an inexhaustible drive for pursuing a better life. The government needs to create an enabling environment for our people to stay enthusiastic for entrepreneurship and innovation. Some people and some enterprises may experience difficulties as this initiative unfolds, which is only normal for the development of new things. But we have the confidence to ensure that our initiative continue to move in the right direction.
Phoenix TV:
This year's government work report, for the first time, contains a reference to the notion of "Hong Kong independence", pointing out that Hong Kong independence will lead nowhere. I wonder if this indicates a change in the policy of the central government. Does it mean that the central government, in implementing the principle of "one country, two systems", will put more emphasis on the part of "one country" and downplay the part of "two systems"? Does it mean that the central government will reduce its support to Hong Kong?
Premier Li:
The principle of "one country, two systems" needs to be understood and implemented in its entirety. As I have also said in the government work report, this principle needs to be steadfastly applied without being bent or distorted. The central government will continue to enhance its support to Hong Kong's development and will introduce more measures in the interest of Hong Kong's development and its cooperation with the mainland. Last year, we launched the Shenzhen-Hong Kong Stock Connect. This year, we will actively explore greater cooperation over the bond markets. That is what the country needs, and Hong Kong has a platform for it too. We are considering establishing a bond market connect between the mainland and Hong Kong this year, allowing for the first time overseas capital to buy mainland's bonds overseas. Hong Kong stands to be the first to benefit from such arrangement thanks to its unique strengths. We believe this will help maintain Hong Kong's status as an international financial center, diversify investment channels for Hong Kong residents, and contribute to Hong Kong's lasting prosperity and stability.
TASS of Russia:
Mr. Premier, how do you evaluate overall China-Russia relations? Do you think that the economic relations between the two countries will enjoy further growth in the face of uncertainties in the international economic landscape and volatility of global energy prices?
Premier Li:
China and Russia are each other's biggest neighbors. We enjoy a comprehensive strategic partnership of coordination. Sound and steady growth of China-Russia relations is good for the region and good for the world. Last year, presidents of the two countries met several times and reached important agreement on many issues. And the prime ministers' annual meeting has been held as scheduled every year for many years. I believe all this is evidence of the stability of China-Russia relations.
Talking about economic relations and trade between our two countries, over the years, we have faced sluggish global economic recovery and anemic growth of global trade. So naturally our economic relations and trade have been affected by the decline in international energy prices and some other factors. I recall that last year, on the same occasion, I expressed the hope for our business relations to turn the corner and achieve strong growth by the end of the year. Thanks to our joint efforts, this has been achieved. In the first two months of this year, there was actually a big surge in China-Russia trade. This shows the tremendous untapped potential of our trade ties and the great complementarity of our economies. I am confident that the goals we set for our two-way trade can be achieved.
Caixin:
China's RMB exchange rate has been under pressure of depreciation. To keep exchange rate stable, one has to either dig into foreign exchange reserves or tighten control on the use of foreign currencies. Among the three scenarios of a weaker currency, drop in foreign exchange reserves and tightened currency control, how would you weigh the costs of each scenario and what choice will you make?
Premier Li:
First, on the exchange rate. Last year, there has been some volatility on international currency markets. Many currencies especially major global currencies have depreciated against the strengthening US dollar. The depreciation of the Chinese yuan against the dollar is a quite modest one. China has no intention to devalue its currency in order to boost exports, because that is not good for our companies' transformation and upgrading. China has no intention to fight any trade war either, as that is not good for the stability of global trade and the international monetary system. China will continue to push forward the market-oriented reform of its exchange rate regime, and follow a market-based, managed floating exchange rate regime. As the floating band of the Chinese yuan widens, the RMB exchange rate has remained broadly stable at an adaptive and equilibrium level. That is attributable to the sound economic fundamentals in China. By keeping the RMB exchange rate broadly stable, China will continue to contribute to the stability of global monetary system.
China still has the largest foreign exchange reserves among all countries in the world. As to what is the right size for our foreign exchange reserves, I believe that will continue to be up for exploration. All in all, China has ample foreign exchange reserves for meeting relevant needs, like paying for imports or paying off its short-term external debts. And China's foreign exchange reserves are way above the international standard.
As for our recent authenticity and compliance review of the use of foreign currency, that has been a legal provision for a long time, not something new. I want to emphasize that the need of our businesses for normal use of foreign currency and that of individuals to study or travel overseas is assured. The RMB has solid weight in the international monetary system and the RMB exchange rate will remain generally stable.
Reuters:
This year, the Chinese government will further reduce ineffective supply and expand effective supply. While doing that, the government needs to ensure that laid-off workers will be re-employed and their basic living needs will be met. If I were a miner or a worker of a steel plant, what kind of new jobs can I expect to get in my province? In what sectors do you expect an increase in job opportunities?
Premier Li:
You have given the employment issue a human face. Last year, we took vigorous efforts to cut excessive and outdated capacity in steel and coal sectors as a priority task for supply-side structural reform. A key concern for us in this process is the proper resettlement of laid-off workers. The central government has earmarked 100 billion yuan in a special fund to provide assistance to them and asked local governments to set up matching funds. Last year, proper arrangements were made for 720,000 workers who were laid off as a result of cutting overcapacity. For various reasons, there are still workers yet to find new jobs. In some cases, given the strong attachment between the workers and their employers, some may prefer to stay on a bit longer with their former employers. Still, their essential living needs are provided for.
This year, effort to cut overcapacity will be extended to the coal-fired power generation sector. Factoring in the number carried over from last year, we need to provide assistance to nearly one million people in total. The key is to continue to generate new jobs, including through our efforts to foster new drivers of growth. As I said before, the initiative of mass entrepreneurship and innovation has both created a lot of new jobs and stimulated job creation in traditional sectors, which has helped to revive these industries.
We will not relent our efforts and will continue to put to effective use the central government special fund complemented by funding from local governments. At the same time, businesses also need to fulfill their social responsibilities. So if you were a coal miner, your mine is going to be closed or its production suspended, and you are capable of flexible employment, I will advise you to find a job in sectors with new drivers of growth or move to new jobs generated in the upgraded traditional industries. Moreover, Chinese companies, whose corporate culture encourages close employer-employee relationships, will continue to provide subsidies to their loyal employees for some time to give them a leg-up.
All in all, easing the transition for laid-off workers will remain our top concern in cutting overcapacity and pursuing the supply-side structural reform.
ThePaper.cn:
In the run-up to this year's two Sessions, the Chinese government's portal website, together with 27 online media outlets, conducted an online survey on the theme of "What I wish to say to the Premier" to solicit public comments and suggestions for the government. Viewers were further requested by ThePaper.cn and Toutiao.com to vote on entries on people's daily lives. The question of "what will happen to my home when the 70-year term of land use right expires", has received the most votes, or 21.31 million in total. My question is, what will the government do to address this public concern?
Premier Li:
Our ancestors believe that one shall have his peace of mind when he possesses a piece of land. So it's understandable for internet users and other members of the general public to feel concerned about the expiry of the 70-year term land use right of their residences. The State Council had asked the relevant departments to respond to these concerns. Specifically, the term can be renewed, and no application or pre-set conditions needs to be filed or met. And the expiry will not affect any transactions over the property. Some people may wonder whether there will be legal safeguards for this right. I want to tell you that the State Council has entrusted relevant departments to speed up their study on relevant laws and come up with a proposal.
Manager Daily
of Thailand:
The Obama administration adopted a rebalancing policy towards the Asia-Pacific region while the Trump administration is yet to spell out its policy in Asia. Thailand and other countries in Southeast Asia hope this region maintains peace and stability. We don't want to see any conflict between China and the US here, even more reluctant to take sides. How do you view China's present role in the Asia-Pacific region? What is China's ideal order and role for the region? How can China and the US live in peace in this region?
Premier Li:
The Asia-Pacific is the common home for all countries in this region. China does not want to see any party feeling compelled to choose sides under the influence of the Cold-War mentality. We believe regional affairs should be handled on the merits of each case and in a way that is conducive to continued peace and stability. As for ASEAN, we always put ASEAN in a priority position in China's neighborhood diplomacy, and support ASEAN community building and its centrality in regional cooperation. China hopes to see an Asia-Pacific that enjoys order and stability, that is able to build consensus through consultation and properly manage differences, and has the wisdom to resolve disputes.
China and ASEAN have been pushing forward the consultation on a code of conduct in the South China Sea. Substantive progress has been made in this regard and we will keep working on that. It is our hope that peace and stability in the South China Sea could be maintained, specific disputes be resolved through dialogue by the parties directly concerned and all countries in the region work together for peace, stability and development.
For years, China and the United States have been cooperating in many areas in the Asia-Pacific region. Many US multinationals place their Asia-Pacific headquarters in China. We hope that the areas of cooperation between the two countries will continue to widen, providing more opportunities for ASEAN countries instead of being a cause of concern for them.
Xinhua News Agency:
We've discovered that there is growing complaint on the part of businesses about the heavy burden of taxes and fees. They say that even with hard work, they couldn't make much money. And we've also heard complaints from Chinese consumers that some high-end goods are not yet domestically made. What is your response to their complaints, Mr. Premier? And what steps will the government take to resolve the issue?
Premier Li:
I devoted a significant portion of my government work report on further cutting taxes and fees, particularly the myriad of excessive administrative fees that are exacting a heavy burden on businesses. These fees are used to cover certain expenses, such as keeping up some payrolls. To cut down fees, the government must tighten its belt. I have made it clear that the central government will take the lead in doing so and cut its general expenditures by no less than 5% this year. And in my discussions with officials from local governments, they all agreed that this is what they also need to do. So we will use this painful adjustment on the part of the government to make things easier for businesses to enhance their competitiveness. Furthermore, we will take steps this year to cut broadband, electricity and logistics costs. Our goal is to bring down taxes and fees by up to one trillion RMB yuan. A most fundamental measure is to reduce government-imposed transaction cost.
As for the complaints of some Chinese consumers about the quality of domestically made goods, I believe this is an important message to all Chinese businesses to enhance quality control. It is also an important part of the supply-side structural reform. We've launched the Made in China 2025 strategy, which aims to raise the quality of Chinese products and equipment. Some people question if that means China will reduce import and retreat in its opening-up. That is a misunderstanding. On the contrary, raising our own products' quality and upgrading our own industries to a medium-high level would actually require us to open even wider to the outside world and introduce more advanced technologies and products. In this process, we will see to it that intellectual property rights will be well protected for the benefit of their proprietors. As for those high-end products which cannot be manufactured locally for the time being, we may consider lowering tariffs to boost import. In a word, we need to give our consumers more options and more benefits, and most importantly, harden the resolve of Chinese companies to win over consumers with their commitment to high quality and workermanship.
United Daily News
of Taiwan:
Over the past year, relations across the Taiwan Straits have become complex and grave with an uncertain future. Under such circumstances, what will the mainland do to uphold peaceful development of cross-Straits relations and safeguard the well-being of people on both sides?
Premier Li:
People on the two sides of the Taiwan Straits are brothers and sisters. Blood is thicker than water. No matter how the situation on Taiwan may evolve, it cannot sever the fraternal bond between the two sides, or change the history or the reality that both sides of the Taiwan Straits belong to one and the same China. Nor will it weaken our resolve and sincerity for peaceful growth of cross-Straits relations.
Our policy towards Taiwan has been consistent and clear-cut, that is, we will stick to the political foundation of the 1992 consensus, which embodies the one-China principle, firmly oppose Taiwan independence, uphold peace across the Taiwan Straits and peaceful development of cross-Straits relations and improve the well-being of people on both sides.
The peaceful growth of cross-Straits relations has brought new opportunities for people on both sides. According to current statistics, people on Taiwan make 5 million visits across the Straits every year. We will introduce more policies to provide more convenience for people in Taiwan to work and live on the mainland as family. We welcome investment from Taiwan businesses. I recall that at last year's press conference, I was asked whether the mainland will keep preferential policies toward Taiwan businesses. I wish to reiterate here that such policies will be maintained to enable Taiwan businesses and people to share in China's development opportunities with their compatriots on the mainland. After all, we are one family.
Radio France:
The European Union is China's second largest commercial partner with a trade deficit of 137 billion euros in favor of China and a large number of European businesses complain about that. What is China proposing to improve market access condition for European businesses? And what about better reciprocity of foreign investments?
Premier Li:
You rightly referred to the trade deficit figure as EU statistics. The fact of the matter is, China never goes after trade surpluses. What we want is balanced trade, as unbalanced trade would not be sustainable. Talking about profits, I think European companies have not just earned profits in China, but have also taken the lion's share of such profits, as they are at the higher end of the industrial chain. If the EU could ease its restrictions on high-tech exports to China, I believe that would make a big difference in our trade balance.
China has proposed to the EU to push forward the BIT negotiations. We hope to receive a positive response. A high-standard BIT will help two-way opening-up between the two sides. And pending that, we will continue to widen market access for European businesses and ensure that European-invested companies registered in China receive the same treatment as domestic Chinese enterprises. With respect to trade frictions between the two sides, we have gained good experience in properly addressing them.
Here I want to emphasize that China has all along supported a united, prosperous and stable European Union, a strong euro, and the European integration process. We believe that is good for economic globalization, for a multipolar world and for diversity of civilizations. We feel optimistic about the future of the EU and the future of China-EU relations.
Beijing News:
In recent years, smog has caused great public concern and severely affected people's lives. Yet we also discover that whenever a major event is held, the smog would disappear and people would take pictures of blue skies and post them online with much excitement. So I want to ask you, Mr. Premier, what can you do to make sure that blue skies are no longer a luxury?
Premier Li:
I fully understand that the smog is a huge irritant in people's lives. Like air, blue skies treat everyone equally. We all want to see more blue-sky days. In the course of development, China is confronted with severe environmental challenges, smog in particular. In my government work report, I laid out five key measures for smog control and we will push them through with full determination to fight and win the battle on smog. But to be honest with you, that will take time.
The main targets for smog control would be to tackle coal-burning, vehicle emissions and dust. In addition, during this year's Two Sessions, I was told by a scientist that apart from these obvious causes, we have not yet fully understood how smog is formed, which is as important. He said, the smog in Northern China during winter is unique compared to that in other parts of the world. Of course, this is not the proper venue to expand on this subject, and the scientists will have to conduct further research. But one thing I can tell you is that we will set up a special fund to bring in the best scientists to dig into this matter regardless of cost and uncover the unknown factors to make our campaign against smog more effective.
We may not be able to control the weather, but we can adjust our behavior and our way of development. I feel the same way as you all do. Smog must be put under control and blue skies should no longer be a luxury, nor will it be.
China Consumer News:
Today is the Consumers' Rights Day. Can you say a few words to consumers, Mr. Premier?
Premier Li:
You and I are all consumers, and we all need protection of our rights. To use popular Internet language, we should give "thumbs-up" to quality products and "blacklist" those bad traders. With joint efforts, we will enjoy more quality products and a better life year after year."