"Remarks by H.E. Xi Jinping
President of the People’s Republic of China
On Reform of the Institutions of Global Governance
At Session II of the 19th G20 Summit
Rio de Janeiro, November 18, 2024
Your Excellency President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva,
Colleagues,
It has been 16 years since the G20 Summit was launched. Over the years, we have worked in solidarity to tackle the global financial crisis, promoted cooperation on global economy, finance and trade, and steered the world economy onto the track of recovery. We have worked in concert to face global challenges head-on, be it climate change or the COVID-19 pandemic, spearheaded technological transformation, and kept renewing the G20’s responsibilities and missions. We have worked in unison to improve global governance, strengthened macroeconomic policy coordination, pressed ahead with reforming the international financial institutions, and championed international cooperation in the spirit of equal consultation and mutual benefit.
Proceeding from a new starting point, the G20 needs to build on its past achievements and continue to act as a force to improve global governance and move history forward. We should keep in mind that mankind lives in a community with a shared future, see each other’s development as opportunities rather than challenges, and view each other as partners rather than rivals. We should observe the basic norms of international relations underpinned by the purposes and principles of the U.N. Charter and defend the international order based on international law. In light of the G20’s mandate, we could build greater international consensus in the economic, financial, trade, digital and eco-environmental fields, among others, to improve global governance and promote an equal and orderly multipolar world and a universally beneficial and inclusive economic globalization.
First, we need to improve global economic governance and build a world economy characterized by cooperation.
We have developed the G20 comprehensive growth strategies and established a framework for strong, sustainable, balanced and inclusive growth. We should stay committed to strengthening global economic partnerships, reinforcing macro policy coordination in fiscal, financial, monetary and structural reform policies, cultivating new quality productive forces, and raising total factor productivity, in a bid to open up more possibilities for the global economy. It is important to make good use of the G20 Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors Meetings, let them serve as a ballast for macro policy coordination, and foster an open, inclusive, and nondiscriminatory environment for international economic cooperation. As main creditors, international financial institutions and commercial creditors need to take part in debt reduction and suspension for developing countries. It is also important to create a clean business environment by upholding a zero-tolerance stance against corruption, stepping up international cooperation on fugitive repatriation and asset recovery, and denying safe haven to corrupt officials and their assets.
Second, we need to improve global financial governance and build a world economy characterized by stability.
To increase the voice and representation of developing countries, the World Bank should carry out shareholding review and the International Monetary Fund should carry out quota share realignment in line with the agreed timeframe and roadmap. Joint efforts are needed to keep the international financial market stable and prevent negative spillover of domestic monetary policy adjustments. Developed countries should fulfill their responsibilities in this regard. It is important to enhance the systems for financial risks monitoring, early warning and handling, reinforce cooperation in such areas as digital currency and taxation, and strengthen the global financial safety net. The G20 Sustainable Finance Roadmap should be implemented at a faster pace to better meet the green financing needs of developing countries.
Third, we need to improve global trade governance and build a world economy characterized by openness.
We should place development at the center of the international economic and trade agenda, and steadily advance trade and investment liberalization and facilitation. We should press ahead with reforming the World Trade Organization (WTO), oppose unilateralism and protectionism, restore the normal functioning of the dispute settlement mechanism as soon as possible, include the Investment Facilitation for Development Agreement into the WTO legal framework, and reach early consensus on the e-commerce agreement. We should work actively to keep the WTO rules relevant, both addressing long-pending issues and exploring the formulation of new, future-oriented rules, to enhance the authority, efficacy and relevance of the multilateral trading system. It is important to avoid politicizing economic issues, avoid fragmenting the global market, and avoid taking protectionist moves in the name of green and low-carbon development. Two years ago, China and Indonesia, together with some other countries, launched the Initiative of International Cooperation on Resilient and Stable Industrial and Supply Chains, calling for industrial and supply chain partnerships that are more equal, inclusive and constructive. We stand ready for closer cooperation with all sides on this initiative.
Fourth, we need to improve global digital governance and build a world economy characterized by innovation.
We should strengthen the function of the G20 Digital Economy Ministers’ Meeting, and let it play a leading role in digital transition, the deep integration of the digital economy and the real economy, and rules-making in emerging areas. We should step up international governance and cooperation on artificial intelligence (AI), to make sure that AI is for good and for all, not a game of the rich countries and the wealthy. China hosted the 2024 World AI Conference and High-Level Meeting on Global AI Governance, and issued the Shanghai Declaration on Global AI Governance. Together with other parties, China promoted the adoption of a U.N. General Assembly resolution on enhancing international cooperation on AI capacity-building. China will hold another world AI conference in 2025 and welcomes the participation of fellow G20 members.
Fifth, we need to improve global ecological governance and build a world economy characterized by eco-friendliness.
We should honor the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities, and fully and effectively implement the Paris Agreement and the Kunming-Montreal Global Biodiversity Framework for the sake of man’s harmonious coexistence with nature. Developed countries should provide developing countries with the necessary funding, technology and capacity-building support. The recently concluded U.N. Biodiversity Conference produced important consensus. We should jointly support the ongoing and upcoming U.N. conferences on climate change and desertification in achieving positive outcomes. Energy transition and energy security is a major issue. We should follow the approach of “establishing the new before abolishing the old,” and replace traditional energy with clean energy in a stable and well-ordered way, as we expedite the green and low-carbon transition of the world economy. China stands ready to continue to deepen international cooperation with all sides on green infrastructure, green energy, green mining and green transport, and will provide support to developing countries to the best of its ability.
Global security governance is part and parcel of global governance. The G20 should support the U.N. and its Security Council in playing a greater role, and support all efforts conducive to the peaceful settlement of crises. To deescalate the Ukraine crisis and seek a political settlement, we should follow the principles of no expansion of the battlefields, no escalation of hostilities and no fanning flames. China and Brazil, together with some other Global South countries, launched the group of “friends for peace” on the Ukraine crisis, with the goal of bringing together more voices for peace. The fighting in Gaza has inflicted deep suffering on the people. It is urgent for all sides to stop fighting, end the war, and provide support for easing the humanitarian crisis in the region and for postwar reconstruction. The fundamental way out of the cycle of Palestinian-Israeli conflict lies in the implementation of the two-State solution, the restoration of Palestine’s legitimate national rights, and the establishment of an independent State of Palestine.
Colleagues,
Let us renew our commitment to the founding mission of the G20, and make a fresh start from Rio de Janeiro. Let us carry forward partnership, practice true multilateralism, and usher in a better future of common development and prosperity.
Thank you."
"Remarks by H.E. Xi Jinping
President of the People’s Republic of China
On Fight Against Hunger and Poverty
At Session I of the 19th G20 Summit
Rio de Janeiro, November 18, 2024
Your Excellency President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva,
Colleagues,
It gives me great pleasure to attend the G20 Summit in Rio de Janeiro. I thank President Lula and the Brazilian government for the warm hospitality extended to the Chinese delegation.
Today, transformation of a scale not seen in a century is accelerating across the world. Humanity faces unprecedented opportunities and challenges. As leaders of major countries, we should not let our vision be blocked by fleeting clouds. Rather, we must see the world as one community with a shared future, and shoulder our responsibility for history, take historical initiative and move history forward.
I pointed out at this forum that prosperity and stability would not be possible in a world where the rich become richer while the poor are made poorer, and countries should make global development more inclusive, beneficial to all, and more resilient. At the Hangzhou Summit, China placed development at the center of the G20’s macroeconomic policy coordination for the first time, and the Summit adopted the G20 Action Plan on the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the G20 Initiative on Supporting Industrialization in Africa and Least Developed Countries. The Rio Summit this year has chosen the theme “Building a Just World and a Sustainable Planet.” It places fighting hunger and poverty at the top of the agenda, and decides to establish a Global Alliance Against Hunger and Poverty. From Hangzhou to Rio, we have been working for one and the same goal, that is, to build a just world of common development.
To build such a world, we need to channel more resources to such fields as trade, investment and development cooperation, and strengthen development institutions. There should be more bridges of cooperation, and less “small yard, high fences,” so that more and more developing countries will be better off and achieve modernization.
To build such a world, we need to support developing countries in adopting sustainable production and lifestyle, properly responding to challenges like climate change, biodiversity loss and environmental pollution, enhancing ecological conservation, and achieving harmony between man and nature.
To build such a world, we need an open, inclusive and non-discriminatory environment for international economic cooperation. We should promote a universally beneficial and inclusive economic globalization, energize sustainable development with new technologies, new industries and new business forms, and support developing countries in better integrating in digital, smart and green development to bridge the North-South gap.
To build such a world, we need to stay committed to multilateralism. We should uphold the U.N.-centered international system, the international order underpinned by international law, and the basic norms of international relations based on the purposes and principles of the U.N. Charter.
Colleagues,
China’s development is an important part of the common development of the world. We have lifted 800 million people out of poverty, and met the poverty reduction target of the U.N.’s 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development ahead of schedule.
This achievement did not just fall into our laps. It is the fruit of the strenuous, unified efforts of the Chinese government and people. Everything China does, it always places the people front and center, and it solemnly declares that “not a single poor region or person should be left behind.” To tackle poverty, we make targeted policies tailored to each village, each household and each person; we facilitate growth by vigorously channeling talent, funds and technologies to underdeveloped regions; we help localities generate growth by fostering industries with distinctive features and upgrading infrastructure, all in light of their own conditions; and we promote common prosperity by pairing up well-off regions with less developed ones. I have worked from village to county, city, provincial and central levels. Poverty alleviation has always been a priority and a major task I am determined to deliver.
China’s story is proof that developing countries can eliminate poverty, and that a weaker bird can start early and fly high, when there is the endurance, perseverance, and striving spirit that enables water drops to penetrate rocks over time and turns blueprints into reality. If China can make it, other developing countries can make it too. This is what China’s battle against poverty says to the world.
Colleagues,
China will always be a member of the Global South, a reliable long-term partner of fellow developing countries, and a doer and go-getter working for the cause of global development. A single flower does not make spring. China wants to see a hundred flowers in full blossom and will go hand in hand with fellow developing countries toward modernization. Today, I wish to outline China’s eight actions for global development.
First, pursuing high-quality Belt and Road cooperation. On top of RMB700 billion yuan added financing windows and an additional RMB80 billion yuan injection into the Silk Road Fund, China is moving ahead with the development of the multidimensional Belt and Road connectivity network, one that is led by the building of a green Silk Road and will empower a digital Silk Road.
Second, implementing the Global Development Initiative. On the basis of over 1,100 development projects already in operation, we will make sure the Global South research center that is being built is fit for purpose, and the US$20 billion of development funds will continue to be put to good use to support developing countries and deepen practical cooperation in areas such as poverty reduction, food security and the digital economy.
Third, supporting development in Africa. At the Summit of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation held in September this year, I unveiled ten partnership actions on joining hands with Africa to advance modernization over the next three years and, in this connection, a commitment of RMB360 billion yuan in financial support.
Fourth, supporting international cooperation on poverty reduction and food security. China has decided to join the Global Alliance Against Hunger and Poverty. We support the G20 in continuing to convene the Development Ministerial Meeting, and will stay a committed host of the International Conference on Food Loss and Waste.
Fifth, China, alongside Brazil, South Africa and the African Union, is proposing an Initiative on International Cooperation in Open Science to help the Global South gain better access to global advances in science, technology and innovation.
Sixth, supporting the G20 in carrying out practical cooperation for the benefit of the Global South and using such outcomes as the Roadmap to Increase Investment in Clean Energy in Developing Countries and the High-Level Principles on Bioeconomy to good effect. China supports the work of the Entrepreneurship Research Center on G20 Economies based in Beijing, and supports cooperation on digital education and the digitization of museums and ancient archives.
Seventh, implementing the G20 Anti-Corruption Action Plan. We are strengthening cooperation with fellow developing countries in fugitive repatriation and asset recovery, denial of safe haven, and anti-corruption capacity building.
Eighth, China is pursuing high-standard opening up, and unilaterally opening our doors wider to the least developed countries (LDCs). We have announced the decision to give all LDCs having diplomatic relations with China zero-tariff treatment for 100 percent tariff lines. From now to 2030, China’s imports from other developing countries are likely to top US$8 trillion.
Colleagues,
The Chinese often say, “A journey of a thousand miles begins with the first step.” China is ready to take steps together with all parties to build a just world of common development, leave poverty in the past, and turn our vision into reality.
Thank you."
"Xi Jinping
President of the People’s Republic of China
At the invitation of President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, I will soon pay a state visit to the Federative Republic of Brazil and attend the G20 Leaders’ Summit in Rio de Janeiro.
Endowed with an expansive land, abundant resources, breathtaking landscapes and a rich tapestry of cultures, Brazil is a favorite destination of the Chinese people. Over two hundred years ago, as Chinese products, such as tea, lychee, spice and porcelain, traversed the oceans to reach the Brazilian shores, trade and economic exchanges began to bridge our two nations and became a bond of friendship between our people.
Fifty years ago, on August 15, 1974, China and Brazil established full diplomatic ties. Our relationship has since withstood the test of a changing international landscape and become increasingly mature and vibrant. This dynamic relationship has not only boosted our respective development but also contributed significantly to world peace and stability. It has established a model for major developing countries to develop win-win cooperation and pursue a shared future.
China and Brazil value mutual respect and treat each other as equals. Our people appreciate and support each other’s choice of development path. Brazil is the first country to establish a strategic partnership with China. It is also the first nation in Latin America to enter into a comprehensive strategic partnership with China. Our relationship has always been a forerunner in the relations between China and fellow developing nations. The two governments have between them a full-fledged mechanism for dialogue and cooperation, of which the high-level commission for coordination and cooperation has been in effective operation for 20 years and played a significant role in coordinating and planning cooperation in various fields and in promoting common development.
China and Brazil value mutual benefit and promote synergy between our comparative strengths as we work hand in hand to advance respective modernization. China has been Brazil’s largest trading partner for 15 consecutive years, and is a major source of foreign investment in Brazil. According to statistics of the Chinese side, China’s annual imports from Brazil in the past three years have stayed above US$100 billion. Thanks to our joint efforts, the structure of trade is becoming increasingly optimized, the level of cooperation is improving, and the scope of shared interests is expanding. Our mutually beneficial cooperation, with no shortage of bright spots and fruitful outcomes in areas of agriculture, infrastructure, energy, resources, green development, technological innovation and finance, has greatly promoted the economic and social progress in both countries.
China and Brazil champion openness, inclusiveness and mutual learning, and we share a natural affinity and a common pursuit of all that is beautiful. Brazil’s renowned poets and writers Cecilia Meireles and Joaquim Maria Machado de Assis translated poems from China’s Tang Dynasty (618-907 A.D.), though not directly from Chinese. Their commendable endeavors reflect the resonance between our two cultures that defy time and space. In recent years, music, dance, and other forms of art, along with cuisine and sport, have become a new bridge connecting the people of our two countries, helping to enhance amity and mutual understanding. Brazil’s cute capybaras, bossa nova music, samba dance, and Capoeira are immensely popular in China. China’s traditional festivals like the Spring Festival and its cultural heritages such as traditional Chinese medicine are increasingly well-known among Brazilians. Our young people, journalists, and academics interact frequently, and subnational exchanges are active and vibrant. Since earlier this year, a series of events have been held in both countries to celebrate the 50th anniversary of diplomatic relations, presenting to our people an array of splendid cultural and artistic feasts. In the last couple of days, I received letters from over a hundred Brazilian friends from across sectors, including the Brazil-China Friendship Association, university teachers and students, and the Copacabana Fort Orchestra of Rio de Janeiro. I am profoundly touched by their fervent desire to strengthen the friendship between our two nations.
China and Brazil stay committed to peace, development, fairness and justice. We have similar or identical views on many international and regional issues. Both are staunch defenders of the basic norms of international relations and multilateralism, coordinating closely and consistently within the U.N., G20, BRICS and other international organizations and multilateral mechanisms on crucial issues, including global governance and climate change. Not long ago, China and Brazil jointly issued a six-point common understanding on political settlement of the Ukraine crisis. Our initiative has received a positive response from the international community. China and Brazil, embracing our roles and responsibilities as major countries, have contributed to a multipolar world, conduced to greater democracy in international relations and injected positive energy into global peace and stability.
Today’s world is undergoing an accelerating transformation unseen in a century. New challenges and new changes continue to arise. As a Chinese saying goes, “In a race of a hundred boats, those who row hardest will lead; among a thousand sails competing, those who advance most bravely will win.” As major developing countries in the eastern and western hemispheres respectively and important members of BRICS, China and Brazil should unite more closely, row hardest and advance most bravely. We should pioneer new routes together and jointly set sail on a voyage toward a brighter shared future that belongs to both our people and the whole of humanity.
Our two countries should stay the course of friendly relations. We should remain committed to mutual respect, mutual trust and mutual learning. We should further intensify exchanges at all levels and across all fields, including between the governments, political parties, and legislatures, and step up the exchange of experience in state governance and national development. We should continuously strengthen strategic mutual trust and cement the political foundation of our bilateral relations. We should fully leverage the role of the China-Brazil high-level coordination and cooperation commission (COSBAN), the comprehensive strategic dialogue and other cooperation mechanisms to build a stable and mature major-country relationship and ensure its steady and sustained growth.
Our two countries should foster new growth drivers for mutually beneficial cooperation. Both China and Brazil prioritize accelerating economic development and improving people’s livelihood and both are forging ahead on the path of modernization. At present, as the new sci-tech revolution and industrial transformation gather pace, our two countries must seize the opportunities offered by the times. We should promote synergy between China’s Belt and Road Initiative and Brazil’s development strategies, and we should keep enhancing the strategic impacts of our mutually beneficial cooperation, broaden its scope, and break new ground. We should foster more exemplary projects that align with the trend of the times and deliver lasting benefits to the people, and contribute to the common development of our countries and regions.
Our two countries should solidify the foundation of people-to-people friendship. China and Brazil boast rich, diverse and uniquely fascinating cultures that are complementary and drawn to each other. We should uphold openness and inclusiveness, values that are imbued in our traditions, and deepen our exchanges and cooperation in the areas of culture, education, science and technology, health, sports, tourism and at the subnational levels. This will help our people view each other’s countries in a more accurate, multidimensional, and vivid light, and cultivate more people-to-people ambassadors who will carry forward China-Brazil traditional friendship. Friendly exchanges, in turn, enhance harmony and mutual enrichment between our civilizations and make the garden of human civilization more colorful and more vibrant.
Our two countries should strengthen solidarity, support each other and fulfill our responsibilities as major countries. Despite its collective rise, the Global South has yet to have its voice and demands fully heard and reflected in the existing international governance system. As two of the world’s major developing countries, China and Brazil should take on the mantle of historical duty and responsibilities. We must work together with others in the Global South to resolutely safeguard the developing nations’ common interests, to address global challenges through cooperation, and to promote a global governance system that is fairer and more equitable. China and Brazil should make our distinctive contribution to world peace, stability and common development.
Another reason for my visit to Brazil this time is to attend the summit of the G20, an important platform for international economic cooperation. Following its assumption of the presidency, Brazil has established the summit theme as Building a Just World and a Sustainable Planet and made active efforts to advance G20 cooperation in various areas, laying a good foundation for the success of the summit in Rio de Janeiro. President Lula has placed fighting hunger and poverty high on the summit’s agenda and proposed the establishment of a Global Alliance Against Hunger and Poverty. China highly commends and will actively support his initiative.
Building a just world requires the G20 to honor the principles of mutual respect, equal-footed cooperation and mutual benefit, and support Global South countries in achieving greater development. Development must be placed at the center of G20 cooperation, and the attainment of the U.N. 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development must be a top priority. A global partnership for sustainable development must be built, and global development must be more inclusive, beneficial to all and more resilient. It is important to press ahead with the reform of the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and the World Trade Organization and to increase the representation and voice of the Global South. Macroeconomic policy coordination must be stepped up, and trade and investment liberalization and facilitation promoted, to create an open, inclusive, and non-discriminatory environment for international economic cooperation.
Building a sustainable planet requires the G20 to promote sustainable production and lifestyle as a way to achieve harmony between humanity and nature. The G20 must advance international cooperation in such areas as green and low-carbon development, environmental protection, energy transition and climate change response. It must honor the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities, and provide more funding, technology and capacity-building support to Global South countries. Thirty-two years ago, the U.N. Conference on Environment and Development held in Rio produced important outcomes such as Agenda 21. This time again in Rio, an important topic for discussion at G20 leaders’ meeting is global green and low-carbon development, and I hope the summit will provide stronger momentum and greater confidence for global sustainable development.
I am confident that the Rio Summit will achieve fruitful outcomes and leave a distinct Brazilian mark on G20’s history. I also look forward to working with President Lula to usher in a new “golden 50 years” for China-Brazil relations, promote a more just and sustainable world, and build a community with a shared future."
"Remarks by H.E. Xi Jinping
President of the People’s Republic of China
At the 31st APEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting
Lima, November 16, 2024
Your Excellency President Dina Boluarte,
Colleagues,
It is my great pleasure to visit the beautiful garden city of Lima again after eight years and join you in discussing Asia-Pacific cooperation. I wish to thank President Boluarte and the Peruvian government for the excellent organization of this meeting.
Over the decades, APEC has been instrumental in leading Asia and the Pacific to great success in development, prosperity and connectivity, making the region the most dynamic economy and primary engine of global economic growth. The world today is gripped by accelerating transformation unseen in a century as well as anemic growth. The World Openness Index has been on the decline. Asia-Pacific cooperation is confronted with challenges such as rising tendencies of geopolitics, unilateralism and protectionism. At this historic crossroads, we Asia-Pacific countries carry greater responsibilities on our shoulders. We must act in solidarity and cooperation to meet the challenges, fully deliver on the Putrajaya Vision 2040, build an Asia-Pacific community with a shared future, and start a new era in Asia-Pacific development. To this end, I wish to propose the following.
F
irst, we need to build an open and interconnected paradigm for Asia-Pacific cooperation.
We should stay committed to multilateralism and an open economy, firmly uphold the multilateral trading system with the World Trade Organization at its core, fully reactivate APEC’s role as an incubator of global economic and trade rules, and advance regional economic integration and connectivity. We should tear down the walls impeding the flow of trade, investment, technology and services, uphold stable and smooth industrial and supply chains, and promote economic circulation in the region and the world. A Free Trade Area of the Asia-Pacific (FTAAP) is an ambitious vision for regional economic integration, and is critical for long-term development and prosperity of our region. Ten years ago, a historic decision to kick off the FTAAP process was taken at the APEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting in Beijing. Today, we will adopt a new document to guide this process. I believe that this will give new impetus to our efforts toward an open Asia-Pacific economy.
Opening up is a distinct hallmark of Chinese modernization. China always promotes reform through opening up. We voluntarily subscribe to high-standard international economic and trade rules, adopt proactive measures for further opening up, and take systematic steps to further open the telecom, Internet, education, culture, medical service and other sectors. We continue to implement the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) against high standards. We are also working actively to join the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP) and the Digital Economy Partnership Agreement (DEPA). We have just signed a protocol to upgrade the free trade agreement with Peru, and have substantially concluded negotiations with ASEAN to upgrade to free trade area 3.0. Together with the relevant parties, we will seek to discuss trade agreements in digital and green areas, and steadily expand the globally-oriented network of high-standard free trade areas.
Second, we need to make green innovation a catalyst for the Asia-Pacific.
We need to firmly seize the opportunities presented by the new round of sci-tech revolution and industrial transformation, and strengthen exchanges and cooperation in artificial intelligence (AI), quantum information, life and health, and other frontier areas. We need to foster an open, fair, just and nondiscriminatory ecosystem for innovation, and promote a leapfrog development of productive forces across our region. To build a clean and beautiful Asia-Pacific, we should prioritize ecological protection, promote resources conservation and their efficient use as well as green and low-carbon development, and engineer an all-round green transition in economic and social development. We need to push forward coordinated digital and green transformation and development to create new momentum and new drivers for Asia-Pacific development.
China is developing new quality productive forces in light of actual conditions and deepening cooperation with interested parties on green innovation. China will launch a Global Cross-Border Data Flow Cooperation Initiative, and seek deeper cooperation with other parties to promote efficient, convenient and secure cross-border data flows. China has put forward initiatives in the APEC framework concerning, among others, the application of digital bill of lading, capacity building on green supply chains, exchanges and dialogue on approaches to AI, and the digitalization of food supply chains, with a view to contributing to high-quality development of the Asia-Pacific.
Third, we need to uphold a universally beneficial and inclusive vision for Asia-Pacific development.
We should make good use of the APEC platform to strengthen economic and technical cooperation. We should increase support for developing economies and disadvantaged groups, and work together to grow the pie and distribute it equitably to allow more economies and people to benefit from development. This year, Peru has been actively promoting cooperation on the transition from the informal economy to the formal and global economy. China welcomes this effort which dovetails with our development philosophy of putting people first, promoting social fairness and justice and improving the people’s well-being. China will advance initiatives through the APEC platform on increasing residents’ income and promoting the industrial cluster development of small- and medium-sized enterprises, for the purpose of bringing about universally beneficial and inclusive development of Asia-Pacific economies.
China will host APEC 2026. We look forward to working with all parties to deepen Asia-Pacific cooperation to the benefit of the peoples in the region.
Colleagues,
Reform and opening up is a historic process in which China and the world achieve development and progress together. A few months ago, the 20th Central Committee of the Communist Party of China, at its third plenum, laid out systematic plans for further deepening reform across the board to advance Chinese modernization. More than 300 consequential reform measures were unveiled pertaining to building a high-standard socialist market economy, advancing high-quality economic development, promoting high-standard opening up, improving the people’s quality of life, and building a beautiful country. China’s further development will provide new opportunities for the Asia-Pacific region and the world at large.
An ancient Chinese sage observed, “A man of virtue, while establishing himself and pursuing success, also works to help others establish themselves and succeed.” There is a similar saying in Latin America which goes, “The only way to be profitably national is to be generously universal.” China welcomes all parties to continue riding the “express train” of its development and grow together with the Chinese economy so that we can all contribute to the modernization of all countries featuring peaceful development, mutually beneficial cooperation and common prosperity.
Thank you."
"Written Speech by H.E. Xi Jinping
President of the People’s Republic of China
At the APEC CEO Summit
Lima, November 15, 2024
Representatives of the Business Community,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
I am very pleased to visit the beautiful city of Lima. It is truly heart-warming to set foot on this dynamic country again after eight years.
Although China and Latin America are thousands of miles apart, we have carried forward our exchanges in spite of the vast Pacific Ocean. As early as in the second half of the 16th century, the China Ships, laden with silk and porcelain, reached the far coast of Latin America, starting friendly interactions between China and the region.
Several hundred years later today, China and Latin America and the entire Asia-Pacific are deeply woven into the fabric of economic globalization. We are now an interdependent community with common interests and a shared future. On the other hand, the world is in a new period of turbulence and transformation. Unbridled unilateralism and protectionism and an increasingly fragmented world economy threaten to reverse the trend toward economic globalization. The grave challenge for us is like sailing up a river—we either forge ahead or drift downstream. Where will the Asia-Pacific economy be going? It is a decision we must make.
Economic globalization is an objective requirement of growing social productive forces. It is a natural outcome of advancement in science and technology and a mighty historical trend. Despite headwinds and undertows, economic globalization has always been the general trend. The attempt to block economic cooperation under all sorts of pretexts and break up the interdependence of the world is nothing but backpedaling.
Economic globalization is caught now in a tug of war between driving and obstructive forces, but the driving forces still prevail. New technological revolution and industrial transformation are getting more profound, and the world is moving faster to embrace a digital, green and smart economy. All this is building up powerful energy for further expedition of economic globalization down the road.
We should steer economic globalization in the right direction. We must reject the beaten path that a few countries have taken to pursue dominance and hegemony. We should see to it that economic globalization generates more positive outcomes and is taken to a new phase that is more dynamic, inclusive and sustainable.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
Tougher times calls for greater confidence. We should join hands to promote a universally beneficial and inclusive economic globalization to the benefit of various countries and communities.
First, we should take innovation as the driving force for stronger growth of the world economy.
Innovation is the source of productivity. We should make full use of artificial intelligence and other emerging technologies to rev up the world economy and stimulate its growth with the current technological revolution. Advances in science and technology should benefit the entire humanity. We should help developing countries with their capacity building in science and technology and promote global flow of knowledge and technologies.
Second, we should keep pace with the times and reform the system of global economic governance.
We should follow the principles of “plan together, build together and benefit together” to ensure that the global economic governance system better reflects the new reality of the world economic map. The representation and voice of the Global South should be enhanced continuously, and all countries should be ensured of equal rights, equal opportunities and equal rules in conducting international economic cooperation. We should uphold the WTO-centered multilateral trading regime, push for an open world economic system, and keep the global industrial and supply chains stable and smooth.
Third, we should always take the people-centered approach and seek to settle imbalances in development.
Global prosperity and stability cannot be achieved when the rich get richer and the poor poorer. True development means common development of all countries. We should ensure people’s well-being while seeking economic growth, and foster a development environment that is inclusive and beneficial for all. We should pursue economic globalization that is people-centered and delivers more balanced development and more equal opportunities, so that different countries, classes and communities can all benefit from development. China hopes that all parties will take an active part in the Global Development Initiative to help expedite the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and promote balanced and full development of all countries.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
APEC was born on the eve of the end of the Cold War when a new round of economic globalization was gradually emerging, and has since taken it as its mission to promote economic globalization. It has contributed immensely to boosting trade and investment liberalization and facilitation in the Asia-Pacific, economic mutual benefit between member economies, and the interests and well-being of the people in our region. Asia-Pacific economies have maintained robust growth and created the remarkable Asia-Pacific miracle.
The success of the Asia-Pacific is due to our firm commitment to peace and stability in the region, to our continuous practices of true multilateralism and open regionalism, and to our deep faith in the trend toward economic globalization as well as mutual benefit and mutual success.
The Asia-Pacific should remain the locomotive of economic globalization in the future. We should stay on the right course and seek to break new ground at the same time. While further burnishing the Asia-Pacific hallmark of openness and inclusiveness, we should make new brand-building efforts to foster a green and digital Asia-Pacific, build an Asia-Pacific community with a shared future, and usher in another 30 golden years of development for our region.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
Last July, the Communist Party of China held the Third Plenary Session of its 20th Central Committee, and adopted a comprehensive plan for further deepening reform across the board to advance Chinese modernization. More than 300 important reform measures were introduced at the meeting, and they will be fully implemented within five years. This will provide not only strong impetus for China’s economic and social development, but also more opportunities for global development.
—China will deepen reform comprehensively and continue to provide robust momentum for the world economy.
China will build a high-standard socialist market economy, foster a fairer and more dynamic market environment, and make resource allocation as efficient and productive as possible. China is endeavoring to achieve breakthroughs in key areas such as reforming the fiscal and tax systems, building a unified national market and advancing new urbanization. It is taking targeted steps to boost consumption and increase domestic demand so as to improve the effectiveness of reforms. China has adopted a full range of major reform measures, which will give a vigorous boost to the rebounding and growth of the economy. We have full confidence in meeting the growth targets for this year and remaining the biggest engine of world economic growth.
—China will advance high-quality development and continue to lead the efforts to improve the performance of the world economy.
In the first half of this year, investment in China’s high-tech manufacturing and service sectors achieved double-digit growth, and its economic structure and growth model improved steadily. China will continue to nurture new quality productive forces in line with actual conditions, promote deep integration of the real economy and digital economy, boost the service sector, further modernize infrastructure, and make industrial and supply chains more resilient. China is committed to high-quality Belt and Road cooperation, and will work with all participants to put in place a network of connectivity featuring integrated land-sea transportation and coordinated development.
—China will stay firmly on the path of green development and continue to be an important force for global green transition.
In recent years, the “green quotient” in China’s social and economic development has continued to rise. China has become the first country around the world with “zero increase” in land degradation, and its newly-added area of afforestation accounts for a quarter of the global total. China is actively expanding new energy sectors and facilitating international cooperation on green mining. It has achieved one of the world’s fastest rates of energy intensity reduction. In 2023 alone, China’s wind and solar power products have helped other countries reduce about 810 million tons of carbon dioxide emissions, and enabled them to access clean, reliable and affordable energy. All this has been an important part of the global effort to address climate change.
—China will build new, open and higher-standard economic systems and continue to share China’s development opportunities with the world.
Opening up is a defining feature of Chinese modernization. Since the start of this year, China has lifted all restrictions on foreign investment in manufacturing, and established for the first time a nationwide negative-list system for cross-border trade in services. We have taken systematic steps to further open the telecom, Internet, education, culture, medical service and other sectors. We have also taken the initiative to apply high international standards of economic and trade rules, including those in the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP) and the Digital Economy Partnership Agreement (DEPA), as part of our plan to steadily enhance institutional opening up. We have expanded the coverage of the 144-hour visa-free transit policy to facilitate inbound visits to China, and “Travel to China” is getting very popular around the world. Going forward, China will introduce more policies for voluntary and unilateral opening up, expand its globally-oriented network of high-standard free trade areas, and open its door even wider to the world.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
As an ancient Chinese scholar said, “When eating fruits, one should remember the tree; When drinking water, one should remember the source.” China’s development is inseparable from the Asia-Pacific, and it will in turn further benefit the region. As a Latin American proverb goes, “Just as a ship is powered by its sails, people are inspired by their hearts.” I am pleased to learn that “From Chancay to Shanghai” has become a fashionable saying in Peru, an echo to the China Ships that arrived here over 500 years ago. This fully shows that as long as we act in the spirit of openness and connectivity, the vast Pacific will become a thoroughfare for more prosperity and growth. Let us enhance our solidarity and cooperation, stand up together to the global challenges, jointly build a community with a shared future for mankind, and form a mighty force for the common prosperity of the world and a brighter future for humanity.
Thank you."
"Arrival Statement at Callao Air Base, Lima, Peru
(November 14, 2024, Callao Air Base, Lima)
Xi Jinping, President of the People's Republic of China
It gives me great pleasure to pay a state visit to the Republic of Peru again and attend the 31st APEC Economic Leaders' Meeting at the invitation of President Dina Ercilia Boluarte Zegarra. It is a great pleasure for me to set foot on this land once again, a land with a long history, beauty, and abundant resources. On behalf of the Chinese government and people, I would like to extend heartfelt greetings and best wishes to the government and people of Peru.
China and Peru enjoy a time-honored friendship, and the China-Peru friendship is deeply rooted in the hearts of the people. More than 400 years ago, the people of both countries began their friendly exchanges through the Maritime Silk Road and the "Manila Galleon", also known as the "Ship of China". 53 years ago, China and Peru established diplomatic relations, making Peru one of the first Latin American countries to establish diplomatic relations with the People's Republic of China. In recent years, with the joint efforts of both sides, China-Peru relations have continued to develop in depth. Political mutual trust between the two countries has been increasingly consolidated, and the two sides have shown mutual understanding and support on issues related to each other's core interests and major concerns. China has been Peru's largest trading partner and the largest export market for ten consecutive years, and steady progress has been made on major cooperation projects in fields such as mining and infrastructure construction, bringing tangible benefits to the people of both countries.
During my visit, I will hold talks with President Boluarte to have an in-depth exchange of views on China-Peru relations, practical cooperation in various fields, and international and regional issues of mutual concern. I will also attend the inauguration ceremony of the Chancay Port with President Boluarte. I believe that with the joint efforts of both sides, this visit will elevate the China-Peru comprehensive strategic partnership to new heights and promote more new outcomes in bilateral practical cooperation across various fields.
I also look forward to attending the 31st APEC Economic Leaders' Meeting and working with all parties to ensure its full success and make new contributions to building an open Asia-Pacific economy, promoting global economic growth, and jointly building an Asia-Pacific community with a shared future."
"Xi Jinping
President of the People’s Republic of China
Early summer in the Southern Hemisphere is a season brimming with vitality and hope. At the invitation of President Dina Boluarte, I will soon pay a state visit to the Republic of Peru and attend the 31st APEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting.
This is my second visit to Peru, a “neighbor” of China across the Pacific Ocean, since I took office as President of the People’s Republic of China. Peru is home to ancient civilizations such as Caral, Chavín, Chimú, and Inca. Peruvians endearingly refer to the Chinese people as
paisano
. Peru’s Congress has recently declared every February 1 as the Peru-China Fraternity Day. Chinese restaurants in Peru are called
chifa
, which is similar to the Chinese word
chifan
, meaning dining. Every time I came here, I was overwhelmed by the friendly sentiments of the Peruvian people toward the Chinese people.
This bond of friendship and affection is rooted in the wisdom of our ancient civilizations. The Chinese civilization is the only one in the world that has continued uninterrupted for more than 5,000 years. The maritime civilization represented by Caral and the continental civilization represented by Inca are a testament to the time-honored history, profound richness, and tremendous diversity of the Peruvian civilization. It is widely believed in the archeology communities of China and other countries that the Chinese civilization and the civilizations of the Americas were in fact created by descendants of the same ancestors at different periods and different locations. Through the wisdom of our civilizations, our minds find common ground and our hearts resonate. The Chinese people always regard “sincerity as a fundamental principle” and “benevolence as an essential virtue.” The Incas believe in the rules of “Do not steal, do not lie, and do not be lazy.” The Peruvian thinker José Carlos Mariátegui once said, “Spiritually and materially, China is closer to us than Europe. The psychology of our people is more Asian than Western.” This is the “code of civilization” that explains the inseparable bond between immigrants of Chinese origin and the local people, forged through seamless integration and familial ties over the past 175 years. A documentary titled
From the Great Wall to Machu Picchu
will soon premiere in Peru under the auspices of the broadcasting and television authorities of the two countries. Also to be screened in Peru are a number of popular Chinese film and television productions including
3 Body Problem
. I believe that they will help our Peruvian friends know more about China.
This bond of friendship and affection is a legacy that shines brightly across the ages through our respective histories. Many told me that Chinese and Peruvian peoples would feel an instant warmth upon their first encounters and would have a
déjà
vu
when appreciating each other’s ancient artifacts. For example, the gold masks of the Incas unearthed in Peru are strikingly similar to the gold masks uncovered at an archeological site at Sanxingdui in China’s Sichuan Province. The Intihuatana stone on an altar in the ancient city of Machu Picchu, which the Incas used to mark the seasons and compose calendars according to changes of solar shadows, was in fact based on the same principle that inspired the creation of sundials in ancient China. The people of the ancient Shu kingdom in what is now China’s Sichuan Province expressed reverence for the sun and the sun god through the image of a soaring sunbird. The Inca civilization expressed its sun worship the same way. The longing for brightness was valued in both of our cultures. Last year, the “Journey Through Civilization” exhibition arrived in Peru as part of its world tour. “The Inca Sky Road South American Continental Andean Culture Exhibition” and the “Inca and Their Tawantinsuyu: The Land of Four Quarters” were on display in China. These events are an immediate hit among our peoples. An exhibition of “Great Ancient Civilizations: China and the Tawantinsuyo in Peru” is now jointly held by the two countries in Peru. You are most welcome to visit the exhibition to see the remarkable commonality and connections between our splendid civilizations.
The bond of our friendship and affection has become stronger through China-Peru win-win cooperation. Peru was one of the first Latin American countries to establish diplomatic relations with the People’s Republic of China. For over 50 years, our bilateral relations have been progressing steadily. Especially since the elevation of our relationship to a comprehensive strategic partnership in 2013, our ties have grown stronger and our results-oriented cooperation have been fruitful, bringing tangible benefits to our peoples. In fighting the COVID-19 pandemic, China sent a medical expert team to Peru. We also provided vaccines and other medical supplies to the best of our ability. We have proven through concrete actions that China is a trustworthy friend that Peru can rely on in crucial moments. Peru is the first Latin American country to sign a package FTA with China. It is also among the first in Latin America to participate in cooperation under the Belt and Road Initiative. China has been Peru’s largest trading partner and largest export market for 10 consecutive years. Last year, Peru’s exports to China accounted for 36 percent of its total exports. Chinese businesses have an investment stock of about US$30 billion in Peru. The Las Bambas copper mine, a project with investment from Chinese enterprises, contributes to about 1 percent of Peru’s GDP, creating tens of thousands of job opportunities. The Saúl Garrido Rosillo Hospital in Tumbes, a project undertaken by a Chinese enterprise, will serve over 100,000 local residents. The water project in the three districts of Lima will enable more than 400,000 people to access clean water and sanitation services.
As an ancient Chinese saying goes, “Bringing benefit to the people is the fundamental principle of governance.” There is also a Peruvian saying, “The voice of the people is the voice of God.” Both China and Peru are striving for a better life for the people. We must build on our traditional friendship to expand and deepen mutually beneficial cooperation across the board, and make it more responsive to the requirements of the new era. Last July, the 20th Central Committee of the Communist Party of China held its third plenary session, endorsing a master plan for further deepening reform comprehensively to advance Chinese modernization. This means new opportunities for Peru and the world, and promises a bright future for China-Peru mutually beneficial cooperation.
During my upcoming visit, President Boluarte and I will attend via video the inauguration ceremony of Chancay Port. This is not only an important project under Belt and Road cooperation, but also the first smart port in South America. The first phase of the project, when completed, will reduce the sea shipping time from Peru to China to 23 days, thus cutting logistics costs by at least 20 percent. It is expected to generate US$4.5 billion in yearly revenues for Peru and create over 8,000 direct jobs. The completion of Chancay Port will enable Peru to put in place a multi-dimensional, diverse and efficient network of connectivity spanning from coast to inland, from Peru to Latin America and further on to the Caribbean. It will also help build an Inca Trail of the New Era with Chancay Port as its starting point, thus boosting the overall development and integration of the region. The port’s development plan also includes establishing animal rescue services to fulfill its social responsibility for the rescue and protection of penguins, seals and birds and to improve the environment of wetlands, beaches, and habitats. It is thus very important that we work together to ensure the success of Chancay Port from construction through operation, so that the route from Chancay to Shanghai will lead China, Peru and Latin America to common development and prosperity. China is also ready to launch in Peru more “small and beautiful” livelihood cooperation projects, open more Luban Workshops and centers for Chinese language and professional skills, and strengthen cooperation on vocational education. We will encourage Chinese companies to create more jobs and fulfill their social responsibilities in Peru, making our
paisano
friendship more tangible and beneficial.
Our two countries should stand up to the responsibility to our times concerning mutual learning among civilizations. We should strengthen exchange and cooperation in culture, arts, education, scientific research, tourism, youth, cultural heritage protection, archeology and other areas. We should take more measures to facilitate personnel exchanges to garner greater public support for our relations. We should enhance cooperation under the framework of the Ancient Civilization Forum. We should explore the establishment of a global network for dialogue and cooperation among civilizations, and support their exchanges and mutual learning. We should ensure that civilizations, diverse in many ways, complement each other and shine brightly together, just like the multicolored pools of China’s Jiuzhaigou and Peru’s Salt Terraces of Maras, thus making greater contributions to the progress of human civilization.
This will be the third time that APEC economic leaders meet in Peru after the country successfully hosted the meetings of 2008 and 2016. The themes of the three meetings, from “A New Commitment to Asia-Pacific Development” to “Quality Growth and Human Development,” and on to this year’s “Empower, Include, Grow,” attest to Peru’s firm resolve to promote an open Asia-Pacific economy and world economic growth. They also represent a strong “Lima Voice” for openness, inclusiveness, and win-win cooperation. China firmly supports Peru’s presidency of APEC and will work closely with Peru to ensure a successful and productive meeting, enhance Asia-Pacific cooperation with a “Lima Imprint,” and make new contributions to building an Asia-Pacific community with a shared future.
The world is undergoing faster transformation unseen in a century. Humanity has again come to a crossroads in history. To fully appreciate the grandeur of the Nazca Lines, we must view them from a height because at the ground level, their true splendor remains hidden from view.
To quote a Chinese poem to the same effect, “Fear not the clouds that obscure your view, for you stand atop the highest summit.” China is ready to join Peru in embracing a broader vision and grasping the underlying trends of our times from a long historical perspective to champion true multilateralism, promote an equal and orderly multipolar world and a universally beneficial and inclusive economic globalization, jointly implement the Global Development Initiative, the Global Security Initiative and the Global Civilization Initiative, and build together a community with a shared future for mankind.
As our friends in Latin America often say, without courage, one will never conquer the mountains or cross the sea. On a new historical juncture, China is ready to work hand in hand with our Peruvian friends with one heart and with the same goal and steer the ship of our friendship toward an even brighter future."
"Remarks by H.E. Xi Jinping
President of the People’s Republic of China
At the “BRICS Plus” Dialogue
Kazan, October 24, 2024
Your Excellency President Vladimir Putin,
Colleagues,
I would like to thank President Putin and the Russian government for putting together this “BRICS Plus” Dialogue, and warmly welcome all the leaders joining us today. It is a great pleasure to see old and new friends in Kazan.
The collective rise of the Global South is a distinctive feature of the great transformation across the world. Global South countries marching together toward modernization is monumental in world history and unprecedented in human civilization. At the same time, peace and development still faces severe challenges, and the road to prosperity for the Global South will not be straight. Standing at the forefront of the Global South, we should use our collective wisdom and strength, and stand up to our responsibility for building a community with a shared future for mankind.
—We should uphold peace and strive for common security.
We should come forward together to form a stabilizing force for peace. We should strengthen global security governance, and explore solutions to address both symptoms and roots of hotspot issues. Many parties have warmly responded to my Global Security Initiative. Under the Initiative, we have made prominent progress in maintaining regional stability and in many other areas. China and Brazil jointly issued the six-point consensus, and launched the group of Friends for Peace on the Ukraine crisis together with other Global South countries. We should promote early deescalation to pave the way for political settlement. Last July, Palestinian factions reconciled with each other in Beijing, marking a key step toward peace in the Middle East. We should continue to promote comprehensive ceasefire in the Gaza Strip and revive the two-State solution. We must stop the flames of war from spreading in Lebanon and end the miserable sufferings in Palestine and Lebanon.
—We should reinvigorate development and strive for common prosperity.
The Global South emerges for development and prospers through development. We should make ourselves the main driving force for common development. We should play an active and leading role in the global economic governance reform, and make development the core of international economic and trade agenda. Since its introduction three years ago, the Global Development Initiative has helped make available nearly US$20 billion of development fund and launch more than 1,100 projects. And recently the Global Alliance on Artificial Intelligence for Industry and Manufacturing Center of Excellence has been established in Shanghai. China will also build a World Smart Customs Community Portal and a BRICS Customs Center of Excellence. We welcome active participation by all countries.
—We should promote together development of all civilizations and strive for harmony among them.
Diversity of civilization is the innate quality of the world. We should be advocates for exchanges among civilizations. We should enhance communication and dialogue, and support each other in taking the path to modernization suited to our respective national conditions. The Global Civilization Initiative I proposed is exactly for the purpose of building a garden of world civilizations in which we can share and admire the beauty of each civilization. China will coordinate with others to form a Global South Think Tanks Alliance to promote people-to-people exchanges and experience-sharing in governance.
Colleagues,
The Third Plenary Session of the 20th Central Committee of the Communist Party of China made systemic plans for further deepening reform comprehensively to advance Chinese modernization. This will provide more opportunities for the world. Last month, we held in Beijing a successful summit of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation and announced ten partnership actions for China and Africa to jointly advance modernization. This will instill new energy for the Global South on its way toward modernization.
No matter how the international landscape evolves, we in China will always keep the Global South in our heart, and maintain our roots in the Global South. We support more Global South countries in joining the cause of BRICS as full members, partner countries or in the “BRICS Plus” format so that we can combine the great strength of the Global South to build together a community with a shared future for mankind.
Thank you!"
"Statement by H.E. Xi Jinping
President of the People’s Republic of China
At the XVI BRICS Summit
Kazan, October 23, 2024
Your Excellency President Vladimir Putin,
Colleagues,
First of all, I wish to extend my warm congratulations on the successful opening of this summit. I also wish to thank President Putin and our host Russia for the thoughtful arrangements and warm hospitality.
I would like to take this opportunity to once again welcome new members to our BRICS family. The enlargement of BRICS is a major milestone in its history, and a landmark event in the evolution of the international situation. At this summit, we have decided to invite many countries to become partner countries, which is another major progress in the development of BRICS. As we Chinese often say, “A man of virtue regards righteousness as the greatest interest.” It is for our shared pursuit and for the overarching trend of peace and development that we BRICS countries have come together. We must make full use of this summit, maintain the momentum of BRICS, and consider and devise our strategy to address issues that have a global impact, determine our future direction, and possess strategic significance. We must build on this milestone summit to set off anew and forge ahead with one heart and one mind.
As the world enters a new period defined by turbulence and transformation, we are confronted with pivotal choices that will shape our future. Should we allow the world to descend into the abyss of disorder and chaos, or should we strive to steer it back on the path of peace and development? This reminds me of a novel by Nikolay Chernyshevsky entitled
What Is to Be Done?
The protagonist’s unwavering determination and passionate drive are exactly the kind of willpower we need today. The more tumultuous our times become, the more we must stand firm at the forefront, exhibiting tenacity, demonstrating the audacity to pioneer and displaying the wisdom to adapt. We must work together to build BRICS into a primary channel for strengthening solidarity and cooperation among Global South nations and a vanguard for advancing global governance reform.
—We should build a BRICS committed to peace, and we must all act as defenders of common security. We humans are an indivisible community of security.
Only by embracing the vision of common, comprehensive, cooperative and sustainable security can we pave the way for universal security. The Ukraine crisis still persists. China and Brazil, in collaboration with other countries from the Global South, initiated a group of Friends for Peace to address the crisis. The aim is to gather more voices advocating peace. We must uphold the three key principles: no expansion of the battlefields, no escalation of hostilities, and no fanning flames, and strive for swift deescalation of the situation. While the humanitarian situation in Gaza continues to deteriorate, the flames of war have once again been rekindled in Lebanon, and conflicts are escalating among the parties. We must promote an immediate ceasefire and an end to the killing. We must make unremitting efforts toward a comprehensive, just and lasting resolution of the Palestinian question.
—We should build a BRICS committed to innovation, and we must all act as pioneers of high-quality development.
As the latest round of technological revolution and industrial transformation is advancing at an accelerated speed, we must keep pace with the times and foster new quality productive forces. China has recently launched a China-BRICS Artificial Intelligence Development and Cooperation Center. We are ready to deepen cooperation on innovation with all BRICS countries to unleash the dividends of AI development. China will establish a BRICS Deep-Sea Resources International Research Center, a China Center for Cooperation on Development of Special Economic Zones in BRICS Countries, a China Center for BRICS Industrial Competencies, and a BRICS Digital Ecosystem Cooperation Network. We welcome active participation from all interested parties to promote the high-quality upgrading of BRICS cooperation.
—We should build a BRICS committed to green development, and we must all act as promoters of sustainable development.
Green is the defining color of our times. It is important that all BRICS countries proactively embrace the global trend of green and low-carbon transformation. China’s high-quality production capacity, as exemplified by its manufacturing of electric vehicles, lithium batteries and photovoltaic products, provides a significant boost to global green development. China is willing to leverage its strengths to expand cooperation with BRICS countries in green industries, clean energy and green mining, and promote green development through the entire industrial chain, so as to increase the “green quotient” of our cooperation and upgrade the quality of our development.
—We should build a BRICS committed to justice, and we must all act as forerunners in reforming global governance.
The international power dynamics is undergoing profound changes, but global governance reform has lagged behind for a long time. We should champion true multilateralism and adhere to the vision of global governance characterized by extensive consultation, joint contribution, and shared benefits. We must ensure that global governance reform is guided by the principles of fairness, justice, openness and inclusiveness. In light of the rise of the Global South, we should respond favorably to the calls from various countries to join BRICS. We should advance the process of expanding BRICS membership and establishing a partner country mechanism, and enhance the representation and voice of developing nations in global governance.
The current developments make the reform of the international financial architecture all the more pressing. BRICS countries should play a leading role in the reform. We should deepen fiscal and financial cooperation, promote the connectivity of our financial infrastructure, and apply high standards of financial security. The New Development Bank should be expanded and strengthened. We must ensure that the international financial system more effectively reflects the changes in the global economic landscape.
—We should build a BRICS committed to closer people-to-people exchanges, and we must all act as advocates for harmonious coexistence among all civilizations.
BRICS countries boast a profound and illustrious historical and cultural heritage. It is important that we promote the spirit of inclusiveness and harmonious coexistence among civilizations. We should enhance the exchange of governance experiences among BRICS countries, and fully harness the untapped potential for cooperation in areas such as education, sports, and the arts so that our diverse cultures can inspire one another and illuminate the path forward for BRICS. Last year, I proposed an initiative for BRICS digital education cooperation, and I am delighted to see that it has become a reality. China will implement a capacity-building program for BRICS digital education. We will open 10 learning centers in BRICS countries in the next five years, and provide training opportunities for 1,000 local education administrators, teachers and students. This will be a tangible step to deepen and strengthen people-to-people exchanges among BRICS countries.
Colleagues,
China is willing to work with all BRICS countries to open a new horizon in the high-quality development of greater BRICS cooperation, and join hands with Global South countries in building a community with a shared future for mankind.
Thank you."
"Islamabad, October 16, 2024
Your Excellency Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif,
Colleagues,
It is a great pleasure to meet you in Islamabad, the beautiful “city of gardens.” At the outset, I wish to express my appreciation to Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif and the government of Pakistan for your meticulous preparations and thoughtful arrangements for this meeting. I welcome Prime Minister Roman Golovchenko of Belarus, a new member state of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO).
Over the past year, governments of the member states of the SCO have actively responded to and implemented the common understandings of the Council of Heads of State, carried out solid cooperation in such areas as economy, trade, security and people-to-people exchanges, reached dozens of cooperation documents, and formulated more than 10 reform measures. Fruitful outcomes have been achieved. The member states have forged ahead steadily and side by side on a collective journey to promote security and development. Unlike most international organizations, the SCO has both a Council of Heads of State and a Council of Heads of Government. As it happens, the specific institutional design, with the Council of Heads of State drawing up the blueprint and the Council of Heads of Government focusing on implementation, has been effective, practical and efficient, and has made the SCO an important platform for maintaining peace and stability in the region and promoting development and prosperity of nations.
At the Astana Summit held last July, President Xi Jinping and fellow leaders of member states reached important understandings on jointly building a common home of the SCO featuring solidarity and mutual trust, peace and tranquility, prosperity and development, good-neighborliness and friendship, and fairness and justice. This endeavor to build a common home is driven by the values we all share; it focuses on the tough issues we all face, and will help create a future we all desire. In my view, this common vision entails efforts in the following five aspects:
First, efforts to build an even more solid political foundation. The fundamental reason why the SCO has stayed vibrant since its inception is that we have upheld the Shanghai Spirit, a vital political consensus, and endeavored to be trustworthy and reliable partners for each other. No matter how the international landscape may evolve, SCO cooperation in various fields will move forward steadily as long as the Shanghai Spirit remains entrenched.
Second, efforts to provide more reliable security safeguards. As we speak, geopolitical conflicts, power politics and acts of bullying continue to undermine regional peace and stability, while on such fronts as cyber security and biosecurity, new threats and new challenges continue to emerge. No country is immune, and the only true security is security for all. Only by further improving the mechanisms and tools to tackle threats and challenges can we provide better safeguards for common development.
Third, efforts to foster closer economic bonds. The SCO’s continuous expansion of membership in recent years has created more notable economic complementarity among member states. By deepening our economic ties, resisting external attempts of pulling us apart, and tapping into and pooling our respective strengths in resources, market and industries, we will be able to foster even stronger synergy for development.
Fourth, efforts to cultivate stronger emotional bonds. Our region is home to diverse and splendid civilizations, where different nations and cultures have interacted and converged with each other throughout the course of history and coexisted in harmony. This has been the source of popular support for cooperation among SCO member states. We need to further promote mutual learning among civilizations and cultural exchanges so as to enhance mutual understanding and friendship between the people of SCO member states.
Fifth, efforts to boost coordination in multilateral fora. Embracing 26 countries from three continents, the SCO family is a constructive force that carries important global influence. With our commitment to the purposes and principles of the U.N. Charter, and our enhanced communication and coordinated actions, SCO member states will better rally the developing world in promoting a more just and equitable global order.
As president of the SCO for 2024-2025, China has introduced “Upholding the Shanghai Spirit: SCO on the Move” as our slogan. The goal is to engender effective actions among ourselves to deliver on the agreement of our heads of state and realize the vision of building a common home featuring solidarity and mutual trust, peace and tranquility, prosperity and development, good-neighborliness and friendship, and fairness and justice. In this connection, China proposes the following four points.
First, enhancing strategic synergy for our shared purpose. Pursuing peaceful development is the abiding purpose of the SCO. We should stay grounded in the fundamental and long-term interests of the region, bear in mind the big picture and keep external disruptions at bay. Our best efforts must be directed toward mapping out the SCO’s development strategy for the next decade and drawing up roadmaps for cooperation in various areas. Member states should step up strategic communication, bridge differences and boost mutual trust through dialogue, and pool strengths for unity.
Second, expanding practical cooperation in line with development needs. The year 2025 will be the SCO Year of Sustainable Development. China stands ready to deepen cooperation with all sides in poverty reduction, digital economy and green development, to generate sustained momentum for development. We should continue to draw impetus from openness and cooperation, boost the region’s trade and investment facilitation and connectivity, and maintain stable and smooth industrial and supply chains. Active efforts should be made to establish an SCO development bank in order to provide financing support for countries in their pursuit of development.
Third, proactively addressing major risks. Our region continues to face grave security issues. The fight against terrorism, separatism and extremism remains a long-term, arduous task, and various challenges lie ahead in such areas as safeguarding information security and combating transnational organized crime. China stands ready to work with all sides to strengthen intelligence sharing and joint operations, move faster to build a universal center to address the challenges and threats to the security of SCO member states and the Anti-Drug Center, and strive for major outcomes at next year’s summit, so that we can put in place new platforms and a new architecture for regional security cooperation.
Fourth, expanding people-to-people exchange to meet popular expectations. We should fully leverage the role of the SCO Committee on Good-Neighborliness, Friendship and Cooperation, develop an effective SCO digital education alliance, organize excellent events under our flagship programs such as the Forum on People-to-People Friendship and the Forum on Friendship Cities, the Forum on Women, and the Art Exhibition of Young Artists, and increase our peoples’ participation and sense of fulfillment, to keep people-to-people friendship strong for generations to come.
Colleagues,
As an ancient Chinese saying goes, “Those who take real actions are more likely to succeed, and those who hit the road are more likely to reach the destination.” Let’s continue to carry forward the Shanghai Spirit, pull together, and take practical and determined steps. Let’s get on the move to deliver on our responsibility, build prosperity and usher in a better future for our common home.
Thank you."
"Vientiane, October 11, 2024
Your Excellency Prime Minister Sonexay Siphandone,
Colleagues,
It gives me great pleasure to join you at the 19th East Asia Summit. I wish to thank Prime Minister Sonexay and the Lao government for the tremendous work in hosting this summit.
The world today has entered a new period of turbulence and transformation, and global economic recovery lacks momentum. To better maintain peace, stability and development is a major task for all of us in East Asia and the broader Asia-Pacific. This year marks the 70th anniversary of the Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence. As we Chinese often say, “Reviewing the past leads to new insights.” Over the past seven decades, the Five Principles have garnered widespread recognition of the international community. Though simple in formulation, these fundamental principles have not lost their relevance but gained new meaning with the changing circumstances. This further underscores their value to our times and significance for the world.
First, a stronger commitment to the Five Principles is required in our changing and turbulent world. At present, some regions are mired in conflict and the people there continue to suffer. Understanding the simple words of “peaceful coexistence” may be easy, but to put the notion into practice is anything but, which makes it even more precious. We must work tirelessly toward this goal, truly strive for peace, and take concrete actions to make Planet Earth a peaceful and harmonious home for us all.
Second, a stronger commitment to the Five Principles is required in a development-focused Asia. Over the past decades, Asia has maintained rapid development, because countries in the region have always followed the right way to get along. We have treated each other as equals, fostered mutual respect and mutual benefit, and jointly promoted stability. For Asia to achieve even greater development, it is imperative that we continue to pursue friendship and partnership with our neighbors, oppose bloc confrontation and “small yards with high fences,” and increase the synergy for development.
Third, a stronger commitment to the Five Principles is required for the realization of equity and justice. Today, developing countries are voicing a stronger call for improving the international governance system and protecting their legitimate rights and interests. The Five Principles were initiated with the purpose of safeguarding the interests and pursuits of smaller, weaker countries. We should continue to draw wisdom from these principles, uphold true multilateralism, and work toward a more just and equitable international order.
China is ready to work with all parties to carry forward the Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence and push for the building of a community with a shared future for mankind. Together, we should forge stronger consensus, deepen mutual trust and strengthen cooperation. First, we should resolutely safeguard peace and tranquility. This entails continued support for an ASEAN-centered, open and inclusive regional architecture, pursuit of a path of regional security governance featuring extensive consultation and joint contribution for shared benefit, and increased vigilance and firm preemption against actions that undermine regional stability and heighten the risk of conflict. Second, we should stay committed to pursuing mutual benefit and win-win outcomes. China is ready to work with all parties to actively implement the Global Development Initiative put forward by President Xi Jinping. We should leverage our respective and complementary strengths, step up input in green transformation, digital economy and other areas where regional countries have needs, and endeavor to realize universally beneficial and inclusive development. Third, we should steadfastly promote opening up and cooperation. We should work on full and high-standard implementation of the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP), speed up the building of the Free Trade Area of the Asia-Pacific (FTAAP), advance regional economic integration, and avoid mixing trade and economic issues with politics and security.
Peace and stability in the South China Sea is critical to the development and prosperity of our region. China has all along committed itself to international law, including the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS), consistently honored the Declaration on the Conduct of Parties in the South China Sea (DOC), opted for dialogue and consultation with countries directly concerned in properly handling differences, and actively engaged in practical maritime cooperation. There are no obstacles whatsoever to freedom of navigation or overflight in the South China Sea. At present, China and ASEAN countries are actively advancing consultations on a Code of Conduct in the South China Sea (COC) and will strive for its early conclusion. I wish to underscore that China’s territorial sovereignty and maritime rights and interests in the South China Sea have solid historical and legal grounds. It is legitimate and lawful for China to take necessary measures to safeguard its sovereign rights and interests. Relevant countries outside the region should respect and support the joint efforts of China and regional countries to maintain peace and stability in the South China Sea, and truly play a constructive role for peace and stability in the region.
As the saying goes, only by following the right path can we go far. In this spirit, China is ready to work with all parties to uphold the Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence and create a brighter future for the region and the wider world.
Thank you."
"Vientiane, October 10, 2024
Your Excellency Prime Minister Sonexay Siphandone,
Colleagues,
It gives me great pleasure to attend today’s Summit. I wish to thank Prime Minister Sonexay and our host Lao PDR for the thoughtful arrangements made for this Summit.
Over the past year, new progress has been made in ASEAN Plus Three (APT) cooperation on all fronts. Trade and investment remain vibrant, and new drivers of economy keep expanding. At the same time, it must be noted that our development is still confronted with factors of instability and uncertainty. In particular, external forces have frequently made interference and caused disruptions, and even attempted to bring bloc confrontation and geopolitical conflicts into Asia. How should we view and address the situation? How can we better grasp the future of Asia, and keep moving forward in the right direction? It all depends on whether we can constantly strengthen the Asian Consciousness and better apply the Oriental Wisdom.
We need to strengthen the Asian Consciousness. Asian countries share a common home, common interests and opportunities, and above all, common values. We all place high importance on independence. Asian affairs should be handled by Asian people through consultation, and the future of Asia must be firmly kept in our own hands. We all take development as a priority. Most countries in Asia are developing countries. Growing the economy and improving people’s livelihoods is our primary task. We all recognize that peace is the most precious. Asia had suffered from the scourge of colonization and invasion in modern times, but over the past decades, our region has maintained rapid development. That is because Asian countries have drawn lessons from the past and endeavored to uphold peace and stability in the region. These commonalities together form the Asian Consciousness, which provides a sound logical basis and common intellectual foundation for us to jointly shape Asia’s future.
We need to better apply the Oriental Wisdom. Asia is home to a galaxy of ancient civilizations. Through centuries of practice, we have developed distinctive insights for navigating world affairs. Having learned that one hand cannot clap while many hands make light work, we are more steadfast in choosing unity and cooperation in the face of growing risks and challenges; having learned that the ocean is vast because it admits all rivers, we are able to see clearly that protectionism and unilateralism lead nowhere while openness and inclusiveness are the right path; having learned that amity and good-neighborliness are invaluable to a country, we are more proactive in promoting understanding and harmony through dialogue and goodwill to address differences, disagreements and conflicts between countries. Such profound Oriental Wisdom nourishes us and empowers us to tackle challenges and pursue development together.
Looking ahead, China stands ready to work with ASEAN, Japan, the ROK and all Asian countries in enhancing Asian Consciousness, promoting Oriental Wisdom and advancing steadily toward a peaceful, tranquil, open and connected Asia of shared prosperity.
Colleagues,
APT is one of the most mature cooperation mechanisms in Asia. As President Xi Jinping noted, when Asia fares well, the whole world benefits. China stands ready to continue working with all sides to fully leverage the role of the APT mechanism, support ASEAN centrality in the regional architecture, promote the long-term sound and steady development of the region, and inject more certainty and positive energy to Asia and the world.
First, we need to make sustained efforts to foster a sound regional environment. Amid the changing and turbulent international landscape, we need to doubly cherish the hard-won peace in the region. China will work with all sides to uphold the principles of mutual respect, solidarity and mutual assistance, and jointly safeguard rules and order in the region. We also need to consolidate the social and popular foundation for APT cooperation, and actively promote youth, cultural, tourism and think-tank exchanges to foster greater mutual understanding and friendship.
Second, we need to make sustained efforts to boost the resilience of regional development. In the face of growing risks and challenges, resilience provides strong safeguards for sustained development. China will work with all sides to deliver on the statement on strengthening the connectivity of regional supply chains adopted at this meeting, to enhance the stability and competitiveness of regional industrial systems. China welcomes the establishment of the Rapid Financing Facility (RFF) under the Chiang Mai Initiative Multilateralization (CMIM) with the incorporation of eligible freely usable currencies (FUCs) as its currencies of choice, and supports making better use of the Credit Guarantee and Investment Facility (CGIF), to jointly improve the regional financial safety net. China is ready to discuss with all countries the innovation of the ASEAN Plus Three Emergency Rice Reserve (APTERR) mechanism to bring regional food security cooperation to a higher level. We also need to continue implementing the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) with high quality, and it is our hope that all parties will support Hong Kong, China in joining RCEP at an early date. China looks forward to accelerating the restart of China-Japan-ROK FTA negotiations.
Third, we need to make sustained efforts to invigorate regional innovation. A new round of scientific and technological revolution and industrial transformation continues to advance across the world. APT countries should make further efforts to seize the opportunities, pursue vigorous innovation and catalyze transition and development. China is ready to work with all sides to explore the development of electric vehicle ecosystem, implement APT exchange and cooperation programs in the digital, AI, green development and supply chain fields, foster new growth drivers for cooperation at a faster pace, improve the economic structure, and boost the momentum for sustained development.
I am confident that through joint efforts of APT countries, we will surely make Asia, our common home, a better place, and contribute more to lasting peace, prosperity and stability of the world.
Thank you."
"Keynote Address by H.E. Xi Jinping
President of the People’s Republic of China
At the Opening Ceremony of the Beijing Summit of
The Forum on China-Africa Cooperation
Beijing, September 5, 2024
Your Excellency President Bassirou Diomaye Faye,
Your Excellency President Mohamed Ould Cheikh El Ghazouani, Chairperson of the African Union (AU),
Your Excellencies Heads of State and Government and Heads of Delegation,
Your Excellency Mr. António Guterres, Secretary General of the United Nations,
Your Excellency Mr. Moussa Faki Mahamat, Chairperson of the AU Commission,
Friends and Distinguished Guests,
Blossoms in spring turn into fruits in autumn, and a bumper harvest is the reward of hard work. In this season of harvest, I am delighted to gather together with so many old and new friends in Beijing to discuss grand plans for China-Africa friendship and cooperation in the new era. On behalf of the Chinese government and people, I extend a warm welcome to you all!
The friendship between China and Africa transcends time and space, surmounts mountains and oceans, and passes down through generations. The founding of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC) in 2000 was a milestone in the history of China-Africa relations. Over the past 24 years, especially in the new era, China has advanced forward hand in hand with our African brothers and sisters in the spirit of sincerity, real results, amity and good faith. We stand shoulder to shoulder with each other to firmly defend our legitimate rights and interests as once-in-a-century changes sweep across the world. We get stronger and more resilient together by riding the tide of economic globalization, delivering tangible benefits to billions of ordinary Chinese and Africans. We share weal and woe in fighting natural disasters and epidemics together, creating touching stories of China-Africa friendship. We always empathize with and support each other, setting a stellar example of a new type of international relations.
Thanks to nearly 70 years of tireless efforts from both sides, the China-Africa relationship is now at its best in history. With its future growth in mind, I propose that bilateral relations between China and all African countries having diplomatic ties with China be elevated to the level of strategic relations, and that the overall characterization of China-Africa relations be elevated to an all-weather China-Africa community with a shared future for the new era.
Friends and Distinguished Guests,
Modernization is an inalienable right of all countries. But the Western approach to it has inflicted immense sufferings on developing countries. Since the end of World War II, Third World nations, represented by China and African countries, have achieved independence and development one after another, and have been endeavoring to redress the historical injustices of the modernization process. As we are about to celebrate the 75th anniversary of the People’s Republic of China, we are going all out to build a great modern socialist country in all respects and pursue national rejuvenation through a Chinese path to modernization. Africa is also awakening again, and the continent is marching in solid strides toward the modernization goals set forth in the AU’s Agenda 2063. China and Africa’s joint pursuit of modernization will set off a wave of modernization in the Global South, and open a new chapter in our drive for a community with a shared future for mankind.
—We should jointly advance modernization that is just and equitable.
In promoting modernization, we should not only follow the general rules, but also act in light of our national realities. China is ready to increase exchanges of governance experience with Africa, support all countries in exploring modernization paths befitting their national conditions, and help ensure equal rights and equal opportunities for all countries.
—We should jointly advance modernization that is open and win-win.
Mutually beneficial cooperation is the sunny road to the betterment of long-term and fundamental interests of all countries. China is ready to deepen cooperation with Africa in industry, agriculture, infrastructure, trade and investment, promote exemplary, high-quality Belt and Road cooperation projects, and build together a model for the delivery of the Global Development Initiative.
—We should jointly advance modernization that puts the people first.
The ultimate goal of modernization is the free and full development of human beings. China will work vigorously with Africa to promote personnel training, poverty reduction and employment, enhance the sense of gain, happiness and security of the people in the course of modernization, and ensure that all will benefit from the process.
—We should jointly advance modernization featuring diversity and inclusiveness.
Well-balanced material and spiritual advancement is a lofty objective of modernization. China will enhance people-to-people and cultural exchanges with Africa, champion mutual respect, inclusiveness and coexistence of different civilizations on our way to modernization, and strive together for more fruitful outcomes under the Global Civilization Initiative.
—We should jointly advance modernization that is eco-friendly.
Green development is a hallmark of modernization in the new era. China is ready to help Africa build “green growth engines,” narrow the gap in energy accessibility, adhere to the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities, and jointly push for the global transition to green and low-carbon development.
—We should jointly advance modernization underpinned by peace and security.
Modernization would not be possible without a peaceful and stable environment for development. China is ready to help Africa improve its capacity in safeguarding peace and stability independently, prioritize Africa in implementing the Global Security Initiative (GSI), promote mutual reinforcement of high-quality development and greater security, and work together with Africa to uphold world peace and stability.
Friends and Distinguished Guests,
China and Africa account for one-third of the world population. Without our modernization, there will be no global modernization. In the next three years, China will work with Africa to take the following ten partnership actions for modernization to deepen China-Africa cooperation and spearhead the Global South modernization.
First, the Partnership Action for Mutual Learning among Civilizations.
China is ready to work with Africa to build a platform for governance experience sharing, a China-Africa knowledge network for development, and 25 centers on China and Africa studies. We will make better use of Africa’s leadership academies to cultivate talents for governance, and invite 1,000 members of African political parties to China to deepen exchanges of experience in party and state governance.
Second, the Partnership Action for Trade Prosperity.
China will voluntarily and unilaterally open its market wider. We have decided to give all LDCs having diplomatic relations with China, including 33 countries in Africa, zero-tariff treatment for 100 percent tariff lines. This has made China the first major developing country and the first major economy to take such a step. It will help turn China’s big market into Africa’s big opportunity. China will expand market access for African agricultural products, deepen cooperation with Africa in e-commerce and other areas, and launch a “China-Africa quality enhancement program.” We are prepared to enter into framework agreements on economic partnership for shared development with African countries to provide long-term, stable and predictable institutional guarantee for trade and investment between the two sides.
Third, the Partnership Action for Industrial Chain Cooperation.
China will foster industry cooperation growth clusters with Africa, push forward the Pilot Zone for In-depth China-Africa Economic and Trade Cooperation, and launch an “African SMEs empowerment program.” We will build with Africa a digital technology cooperation center and initiate 20 digital demonstration projects so as to embrace together the latest round of technological revolution and industrial transformation.
Fourth, the Partnership Action for Connectivity.
China is prepared to carry out 30 infrastructure connectivity projects in Africa, promote together high-quality Belt and Road cooperation, and put in place a China-Africa network featuring land-sea links and coordinated development. We are ready to assist in the development of the African Continental Free Trade Area, and deepen logistics and financial cooperation for the benefit of trans-regional development in Africa.
Fifth, the Partnership Action for Development Cooperation.
China is ready to release the Joint Statement on Deepening Cooperation within the Framework of the Global Development Initiative with Africa, and implement 1,000 “small and beautiful” livelihood projects. We will replenish the China-World Bank Group Partnership Facility to boost Africa’s development. We support Africa in hosting the 2026 Youth Olympic Games and the 2027 Africa Cup of Nations. We will work together with Africa to deliver more fruits of development to the two peoples.
Sixth, the Partnership Action for Health.
China is ready to establish with Africa a hospitals alliance and joint medical centers. We will send 2,000 medical personnel to Africa, and launch 20 programs of health facilities and malaria treatment. We will encourage Chinese companies to invest in Africa’s pharmaceutical production, and continue to do what we can to help Africa with epidemic response. We support the development of the Africa Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to strengthen public health capacity in all African countries.
Seventh, the Partnership Action for Agriculture and Livelihoods.
China will provide Africa with RMB1 billion yuan in emergency food assistance, build 100,000 mu (about 6,670 hectares) of standardized agriculture demonstration areas in Africa, send 500 agricultural experts, and establish a China-Africa agricultural science and technology innovation alliance. We will implement 500 programs in Africa to promote community welfare. We will also encourage two-way investment for new business operations by Chinese and African companies, enable Africa to retain added value, and create at least one million jobs for Africa.
Eighth, the Partnership Action for People-to-People Exchanges.
China will implement with Africa more solidly the Future of Africa—Vocational Education Cooperation Plan, establish together an engineering technology academy, and build ten Luban Workshops. We will provide 60,000 training opportunities to Africa, mainly for women and youths. We will launch with Africa a Cultural Silk Road program as well as an initiative of cooperation on innovation in radio, TV and audio and visual programs. The two sides have agreed to designate 2026 as the China-Africa Year of People-to-People Exchanges.
Ninth, the Partnership Action for Green Development.
China is ready to launch 30 clean energy projects in Africa, put in place meteorological early warning systems, and carry out cooperation in disaster prevention, mitigation and relief as well as biodiversity conservation. We will create a China-Africa forum on peaceful use of nuclear technology, establish together 30 joint laboratories, and collaborate on satellite remote sensing and lunar and deep-space exploration. All this is designed to help with green development in Africa.
Tenth, the Partnership Action for Common Security.
China is ready to build with Africa a partnership for implementing the GSI, and make it a fine example of GSI cooperation. We will give Africa RMB1 billion yuan of grants in military assistance, provide training for 6,000 military personnel and 1,000 police and law enforcement officers from Africa, and invite 500 young African military officers to visit China. The two sides will conduct joint military exercises, training and patrol, carry out an “action for a mine-free Africa,” and jointly ensure the safety of personnel and projects.
To implement the ten partnership actions, the Chinese government will provide RMB360 billion yuan of financial support through the next three years. This breaks down into RMB210 billion yuan of credit line, RMB80 billion yuan of assistance in various forms, and at least RMB70 billion yuan of investment in Africa by Chinese companies. In addition, China will encourage and support Africa in issuing panda bonds in China to enhance our results-oriented cooperation in all areas.
Friends and Distinguished Guests,
The Communist Party of China held in July the successful Third Plenary Session of its 20th Central Committee, laying out systematic plans for further deepening reform comprehensively to advance Chinese modernization. This will profoundly further transform China. It will also provide new opportunities and new driving forces for African countries and for our joint pursuit of modernization.
As an African proverb goes, a friend is someone you share the path with. On the path to modernization, no one, and no country, should be left behind. Let us rally the more than 2.8 billion Chinese and African people into a powerful force on our shared path toward modernization, promote modernization of the Global South with China-Africa modernization, and write a new magnificent chapter of development in human history. Let us join hands to bring about a bright future of peace, security, prosperity and progress for our world.
Thank you."
"Beijing, September 4, 2024
Your Excellency President Bassirou Diomaye Faye,
Distinguished Colleagues and Your Spouses,
Friends and Distinguished Guests,
Good evening!
It is my great pleasure to meet you here on the eve of the 2024 Summit of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC). On behalf of the Chinese government and people, and in the name of my wife and myself, I extend a warm welcome to you all.
To quote a Chinese poem, “True friends always feel close to each other, no matter the distance between them.” I have been to Africa 10 times and hosted many African leaders in China. All our meetings have been cordial and heartwarming. They have reinforced my belief that the China-Africa community with a shared future is built on a strong foundation, has been blessed with a good start, and enjoys broad prospects. It sets a stellar example for building a community with a shared future for mankind.
The China-Africa community with a shared future is deeply rooted in our traditional friendship. Since the mid-20th century, we have been fighting shoulder to shoulder imperialism, colonialism, and hegemonism, and advancing hand in hand along the path of development, revitalization, and modernization. China-Africa friendship remains robust and is growing stronger through generations no matter how the world changes.
The China-Africa community with a shared future thrives on the strength of win-win cooperation. Twenty-four years ago, FOCAC was born at the dawn of a new century. Through this key cooperation platform, we have together built roads, railways, schools, hospitals, industrial parks, and special economic zones. These projects have changed the lives and destiny of many people.
The China-Africa community with a shared future grows in step with the times. Following the Eighth FOCAC Ministerial Conference in Dakar in 2021, we have worked together to fully implement the nine programs and deliver on other outcomes of the meeting. We pulled together in the face of the COVID-19 pandemic. We maintained close cooperation and coordination on major international and regional issues. Together we have made the voice of the Global South stronger.
Friends and Distinguished Guests,
We human beings have been dreaming of a community with a shared future, and modernization is what it takes to turn our dream into reality. China and Africa have been, and remain, pioneers in building this community, and we will stay at the forefront in pursuing modernization. I am confident that as long as the 2.8 billion-strong Chinese and African people are united for this common goal, we will accomplish new and even greater feats together on the way toward modernization, spearhead the modernization drive of the Global South, and make greater contributions to a community with a shared future for mankind.
Now, I would like to propose a toast;
To the prosperity of China and African countries and the well-being of our people;
To the everlasting friendship between the Chinese and African people;
To the success of the Summit; and
To the health of all distinguished guests and your families.
Cheers!"
"Xi Jinping
President of the People’s Republic of China
In this lovely midsummer season, I will pay a state visit to the Republic of Tajikistan at the invitation of President Emomali Rahmon. This will be my third visit to Tajikistan. I last set foot on this beautiful land five years ago. The famous Tajik poet Rudaki once said that nothing could compare to the joy of a reunion with family or friends. I look forward to my meeting with President Rahmon to jointly open up brighter prospects for China-Tajikistan relations.
China and Tajikistan, connected by mountains and rivers, share a common destiny. The ancient Silk Road bears witness to the 2,000-plus years of friendship between our two nations. Zhang Qian, a royal emissary of China’s Han Dynasty (202BC-220AD), Xuanzang (Hiuen Tsang), an eminent monk of the Tang Dynasty (618-907) who travelled westward for Buddhist scriptures, and Chen Cheng, a diplomat of the Ming Dynasty (1368-1644) all left their footprints of friendship in Tajikistan. Sogdian merchants, travelling across the Eurasian continent, facilitated trade between China and Central Asia, West Asia, and even Europe, and made distinctive contributions to cultural exchanges and mutual learning among peoples along the Silk Road.
Thirty-two years ago, China and Tajikistan established diplomatic relations, opening a new chapter in our relations. Over the past three decades and more, China-Tajikistan relations have stood the test of the volatile international situations and maintained the momentum of sound and steady development. Our overall relationship has made a historic leap from good-neighborliness to a strategic partnership, and to a comprehensive strategic partnership. Together, we are committed to building a China-Tajikistan community with a shared future, blazing a successful path for growing relations between neighboring countries.
—China and Tajikistan treat each other with sincerity, respect and trust. We firmly support each other on issues that bear on our respective core interests, particularly independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity. We respect the development path that each has chosen in light of our respective national conditions. We resolutely oppose interference in internal affairs by any external force under any pretext. As always, we understand and support each other on issues related to our respective major concerns. We take pleasure in each other’s progress in development and national revitalization. We have established cooperation mechanisms in key areas, which provide an important institutional guarantee for furthering bilateral relations. President Rahmon and I have met 15 times. We enjoy a good working relationship and a deep personal friendship as we jointly guide the development of China-Tajikistan relations.
—China and Tajikistan both pursue mutual benefit and win-win in cooperation. China has long been Tajikistan’s largest source of investment and its major trading partner. Our two-way trade was close to US$4 billion in 2023, reaching another record high. Such strong momentum has continued in the first four months of this year. Tajikistan was among the first countries to participate in Belt and Road cooperation. A number of China-Tajikistan joint projects have been implemented, including a cement plant in Yavan, an agriculture technology demonstration center in Khatlon, and an agriculture and textile park in Dangara. They have helped upgrade Tajikistan’s industrial technology and created thousands of local jobs. The China-Tajikistan highway and the Vahdat-Yavan railway tunnels, which are built by Chinese companies, make places along the routes more easily accessible. Premium green produce of Tajikistan such as cherries, lemons and grapes have steadily made their way to Chinese households and are quite popular among Chinese consumers. It is particularly heartening that the Tajik parliament building and government building, which President Rahmon and I jointly launched five years ago, will soon be completed. They will be new landmarks in Dushanbe and new symbols of China-Tajikistan cooperation.
—China and Tajikistan remain committed to mutual learning through friendly exchanges. The Confucius Institutes and the Luban Workshop have helped train a large number of Chinese speakers and technical personnel, who are now a vital force for the development and cooperation between our two nations. The Sino-Tajik Center for Traditional Chinese Medicine and the program of Lifeline Express International Sight Saving Mission that provides free cataract surgeries for patients in Tajikistan have contributed to public health in our two countries through a combination of traditional Chinese medicine and modern technology.
The Culture Day programs, seminars on specific subjects, student exchange programs, and the translation and publication of literature in our respective languages have helped foster greater mutual understanding and strengthened the ties between our two nations. These initiatives are akin to small streams that will ultimately converge to form a vast ocean of friendship between our two nations. There are now nine pairs of sister provinces/cities between our two countries. This is another example of how our friendship has been growing with vigor and vitality.
—China and Tajikistan treat each other with sincerity and stand in solidarity in times of challenge. In response to COVID-19, our two countries pulled together in combating the pandemic. We provided each other with a large number of medical supplies, and China sent professional medical teams to Tajikistan to assist in its COVID response. Together, we erected an ironclad line of defense against the virus. We timely consulted with each other and took actions together to resolve the issues concerning the Karasu-Kulma Pass, and ensured safe and smooth passage through the artery route of transportation and logistics. China and Tajikistan have maintained close coordination and collaboration on the international stage, supporting and responding positively to each other’s major initiatives. Both of our countries firmly uphold the international system with the United Nations at its center, the international order based on international law, and the norms governing international relations underpinned by the purposes and principles of the UN Charter. We both endeavor to contribute to safeguarding international fairness and justice.
China and Tajikistan are both at a critical stage of national development and revitalization. China is pursuing high-quality development and advancing high-standard opening up. The Chinese people are working in unity to build China into a great modern socialist country in all respects, and to advance the great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation on all fronts through a Chinese path to modernization. Tajikistan is making great strides on its path to realizing the National Development Strategy of the Republic of Tajikistan up to the period of 2030. I look forward to my meetings with President Rahmon to discuss how best to promote closer cooperation and bring our bilateral relationship to new heights.
—We need to improve the top-level design for our relationship to ensure its steady development in the right direction. We need to maintain high-level exchanges as frequently as necessary, deepen our experience sharing on governance and build stronger mutual political trust so as to always keep the relationship on the right track. We need to deepen our cooperation at all levels and in all areas, and spare no effort to implement the top-level consensus in full so as to add an enduring momentum to the China-Tajikistan relationship.
—We need to expand results-oriented cooperation to provide stronger material foundations for China-Tajikistan relations. China will work with Tajikistan to strengthen complementarity between the Belt and Road Initiative and the National Development Strategy of Tajikistan up to the period of 2030 as a concrete step to boost our respective development and revitalization. We need to consider new measures for trade promotion and expansion, accelerate the construction of the key section of the China-Tajikistan highway, and open more direct flights in response to the travel needs of our peoples. Other areas of cooperation include high and new technologies such as new energy vehicle, solar panel and satellite communication. China will import more premium produce from Tajikistan, and encourage strong Chinese companies to make more investments in Tajikistan as a step to help modernize its industrial system.
—We need to deepen security cooperation and build a strong development security shield. We need to jointly act on the vision of common, comprehensive, cooperative and sustainable security, enhance exchange between our law enforcement and security agencies, crack down on terrorist, extremist and separatist forces such as ETIM, and prevent and combat infiltration and sabotage by terrorists and extremists. We should remain resolute in opposing any attempt by external forces to interfere in our internal affairs or to undermine regional stability, so as to provide strong and effective safeguards for the development of our countries.
—We need to promote people-to-people and cultural exchanges to strengthen public support for a lasting friendship between our two nations. We welcome more Tajik friends to China for sightseeing, academic studies, as well as investment, business and exchange opportunities. China will continue to expand cooperation with Tajikistan in such areas as culture, education, health and sports. I hope to see more exchanges between our young people and more exchanges at subnational levels. I also hope our people-to-people exchanges will be as frequent as those between relatives. The Luban Workshop, Confucius Institutes, and the Sino-Tajik Center for Traditional Chinese Medicine are expected to play a greater role. We need to accelerate the mutual establishment of cultural centers, and expand cooperation at subnational levels as steps to ensure that China-Tajikistan friendship is sustained through generations.
—We need to enhance unity and collaboration and help foster an international environment favorable for peace and development. The two sides need to step up coordination and collaboration on multilateral platforms such as the United Nations, the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, and the China-Central Asia mechanism. We need to practice true multilateralism and promote an equal and orderly multipolar world and universally beneficial and inclusive economic globalization. We need to deliver on the Global Development Initiative, the Global Security Initiative and the Global Civilization Initiative, stand up for our common interests and those of other developing countries, and make our contribution to safeguarding international fairness and justice.
A Chinese poet in the Tang Dynasty once wrote, “One can enjoy a grander sight by climbing to a greater height.” We from China look forward to working with our Tajik friends to draw a new blueprint for stronger China-Tajikistan friendship, write a new chapter in our mutually beneficial cooperation, and create a brighter future of our two nations."
"Statement by H.E. Xi Jinping
President of the People’s Republic of China
At the “Shanghai Cooperation Organization Plus” Meeting in Astana
Astana, July 4, 2024
Your Excellency President Kassym-Jomart Tokayev,
Colleagues,
It is a great pleasure to be with you in beautiful Astana. I would like to thank President Tokayev for the warm hospitality and thoughtful arrangements. Kazakhstan has done an excellent job as President of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) over the past year, and the SCO has made new progress.
As a Chinese saying goes, “No mountain or ocean can distance people who have shared aspirations.” Today, we get together for our first “SCO Plus” Meeting, with good friends and new partners in the same room holding important discussions. This shows that under the new circumstances of the new era, the vision of our Organization is widely popular, and that SCO member states have friends across the world.
At present, changes of historical significance across the world during our times are unfolding in ways like never before. The international landscape is undergoing rapid transformation. A new round of scientific and technological revolution and industrial transformation is advancing fast. As human civilization marches forward in big strides, factors of insecurity, instability and uncertainty are evidently increasing.
To cope with this major transformation, the key is to have the wisdom to see the changes, the ability to deal with the changes, and the courage to make changes. We need to bear in mind that we live in a community with a shared future, and always uphold the Shanghai Spirit. We need to stay firmly on the development paths that suit our respective national conditions and regional realities, and jointly build a more promising home of the SCO so that our peoples can live a peaceful, successful and happy life. To that end, I wish to propose the following:
First, we should build a common home of solidarity and mutual trust.
A few days ago, China held the Conference Marking the 70th Anniversary of the Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence. The Shanghai Spirit is consistent with the essence of the Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence. It is the shared value of our Organization, and should be all the more cherished and faithfully observed at all times.
We need to respect the development path of respective, independent choosing, and support each other in safeguarding core interests. We need to bridge our differences, build more consensus, and enhance mutual trust through strategic communication. China proposes that SCO member states do more to share their experience on governance and hold the SCO Political Parties Forum at an appropriate time.
Second, we should build a common home of peace and tranquility.
Security is a prerequisite for national development, and safety is the lifeline to happiness of the people. No matter how the international landscape changes, our Organization must hold the bottom line of common, comprehensive, cooperative and sustainable security. Real security is premised on the security of all countries.
We need to have a complete set of measures under the security cooperation mechanisms, because more lines of defense will give us more protection. The SCO should move faster to build a universal center and its branches to address the challenges and threats to the security of SCO member states and the Anti-Drug Center. It should strengthen intelligence sharing and conduct joint operations to jointly safeguard security in our part of the world. As the current chair of the Regional Anti-Terrorist Structure, China will do what it can to ensure the success of the Interaction-2024 joint counterterrorism exercise and other events.
Afghanistan is indispensable for the security in the region. We need to make best use of the mechanism of coordination and cooperation among Afghanistan’s neighbors and other platforms to increase humanitarian support to Afghanistan, and encourage Afghanistan to establish a broad-based and inclusive political structure and embark on a path of peace and reconstruction.
Third, we should build a common home of prosperity and development.
Modernization is the shared goal of all countries in the SCO. China proposes that 2025 be designated as the SCO Year of Sustainable Development so as to help us focus on fostering new forces for growth. China is ready to work with all parties to fully implement the eight major steps under high-quality Belt and Road cooperation. We will promote regional cooperation through platforms such as the demonstration base for agricultural technology exchange and training, the local economic and trade cooperation demonstration area, and the ecology and environment innovation base. We will also expand local currency settlement, and actively promote the establishment of an SCO financing platform.
China welcomes all parties to use the Beidou Satellite Navigation System and participate in the development of the International Lunar Research Station. China proposes establishing an SCO digital education alliance, and is willing to provide at least 1,000 training opportunities on digital technology to fellow countries in the SCO in the next three years. We should also modernize the governance system of our Organization, improve its operation mechanisms, and boost its effectiveness.
Fourth, we should build a common home of good-neighborliness and friendship.
Dialogue among civilizations is ever more important for world peace and harmony. China is ready to provide quality platforms for countries in the SCO to engage in such dialogues. It will give full play to the role of non-official organizations such as the SCO Committee on Good-Neighborliness, Friendship and Cooperation. It will continue to organize events under signature programs such as the Forum on Traditional Medicine, the Forum on People-to-People Friendship, the Youth Campus, and the Youth Development Forum. It will hold a green development forum and a women’s forum in Qingdao, the tourism and cultural capital of the SCO. We welcome all parties to take an active part in these events.
In the next five years, China will host 1,000 young people from countries in the SCO for exchange opportunities in China. I believe that with our joint efforts, there will be more robust interactions and mutual learning among regional countries as well as deeper understanding and friendship among our peoples.
Fifth, we should build a common home of fairness and justice.
The current SCO Summit has issued the Astana Declaration, the SCO initiative on world unity for justice, harmony and development, and the statement on the principles of good-neighborliness, trust and partnership. It is a strong message of the new era, one that calls for solidarity, cooperation and justice rather than division, confrontation, and hegemonism.
We should jointly advocate an equal and orderly multipolar world and a universally beneficial and inclusive economic globalization, practice true multilateralism, and make global governance more just and equitable. The SCO should make its important contribution to eliminating the deficits in peace, development, security and governance.
Colleagues,
A Chinese adage reads, “Victory is ensured when people pool their strength together; Success is secured when people put their heads together.” The SCO owes its success to solidarity and cooperation throughout the years. This is also naturally the inevitable way for us to respond to the changing world and open new horizons on the new journey ahead.
China will take the rotating presidency after the Astana Summit. We will work with SCO partners in the spirit of solidarity and cooperation, and join hands with more countries and international organizations that identify with the Shanghai Spirit to strive for common progress and foster brighter prospects for a community with a shared future for mankind.
Thank you."
"Xi Jinping
President of the People’s Republic of China
All beings are flourishing in the height of summer. I will soon pay a state visit to Kazakhstan and attend the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) Summit in this vibrant season at the invitation of President Kassym-Jomart Tokayev. This will be my fifth visit to your country as the President of the People’s Republic of China. Kazakhstan’s enchanting land, its splendid and distinctive culture, its vast and magnificent landscape, and its nice and friendly people have been most impressive. The visit offers me an opportunity to experience first hand the new progress and new changes that have been made in Kazakhstan. I look forward to meeting with President Tokayev to plan the way forward for closer China-Kazakhstan cooperation and draw a new blueprint for further growth of China-Kazakhstan relations and the SCO.
Over 2,000 years ago, Zhang Qian, a royal emissary from China led a diplomatic mission to the Western Regions, opening the door to friendship and exchanges between China and Central Asia. The ancient Silk Road, of which Zhang was a pioneer, contributed to the friendly exchanges and mutual learning between our two great nations. Over 80 years ago, Chinese musician Xian Xinghai and Kazahk composer Bakhtzhan Baikadamov met and came to know each other in Almaty. They soon became bosom friends and devoted brothers despite their different nationalities. Thirty-two years ago, China was among the first countries to recognize Kazakhstan’s independence. China-Kazakhstan relations have since embarked on a new journey. The history of China-Kazakhstan friendly exchanges is a strong testament to the fact that the development of our bilateral relationship conforms to the trend of history and that of our times.
It was in Kazakhstan eleven years ago that I first proposed the initiative of the Silk Road Economic Belt, which was warmly received by people from different sectors in Kazakhstan. This marked a magnificent chapter in Belt and Road cooperation between our two countries. And the development of China-Kazakhstan relations have since entered a new stage.
Our two countries have always supported each other and have always been partners in times of challenge. Our mutual political trust has reached a new level.
The China-Kazakhstan relationship has made a leap from a comprehensive strategic partnership to a permanent comprehensive strategic partnership. The two countries have agreed on the vision of building a China-Kazakhstan community with a shared future defined by lasting friendship, a high degree of mutual trust and sharing weal and woe. We have rendered each other firm support on issues that bear on our respective core interests and are of major concern to us. We respect the development path that each has chosen according to our respective national conditions. We have always been trustworthy and reliable partners and would invariably extend a helping hand and do our utmost to support each other when we were hit by disasters like floods and pandemics. Such unbreakable mutual trust and support are invaluable, forming the strongest political cornerstone that underpins our bilateral cooperation.
Our two countries have always pursued mutual benefit, win-win and coordinated development, achieving new success in results-oriented cooperation.
Last year, our two-way trade registered a record high of US$41 billion. China is now Kazakhstan’s largest trading partner and its top export destination. Major strategic projects including the Zhanatas wind farm, Turgusun hydropower station, and the modernization of Shymkent Oil Refinery have been completed and commissioned. China-Kazakhstan crude oil and natural gas pipelines are operating in a safe and stable manner. The “green lanes” for fast customs clearance of agricultural products are available at all border ports between the two countries, which makes green agri-products of high quality from Kazakhstan easily accessible for Chinese consumers. The potential for cooperation in new energy and transportation infrastructure has been unleashed. The transport and logistics terminal in Xi’an, the Western Europe-Western China Highway, and the China-Europe Railway Express all operate smoothly, providing a strong boost to the development of both China and Kazakhstan.
Our two countries have always helped and learned from each other and witnessed a new upsurge in people-to-people and cultural exchanges.
A China-Kazakhstan agreement on mutual establishment of cultural centers has been signed. Chinese and Kazakh filmmakers have co-produced a film entitled “The Composer,” which is their first co-production. Our bilateral programs for cultural cooperation, including a Chinese university campus in Kazakhstan, a Luban Workshop, and a center of traditional Chinese medicine, have been fully implemented. These institutions are now up and running. Thanks to our mutual visa-exemption arrangements, our people can visit each other as frequently as relatives do. Last year, a total of 600,000 cross-border trips were recorded. In the first quarter of this year, the number of visits in both directions amounted to 200,000 and are expected to reach a new high. Subnational cooperation is also booming, with the number of sister cities increasing to 26 pairs. The much respected and lauded ophthalmologist Dr. Saulebek Kabibekov, the “panda-man” Ruslan Tulenov, who voluntarily donated his rare type of blood in China, and the immensely popular singer Dimash Kudaibergen have become China-Kazakhstan friendship envoys in the new era.
Our two countries have always worked together in response to various challenges, and our coordination and collaboration at the international level has achieved new and tangible results.
China and Kazakhstan hold similar positions on international and regional affairs. Both countries champion the vision of common, comprehensive cooperative and sustainable security. And both are committed to acting as a world peace builder, a global development contributor, and an international order defender. We have jointly created a China-Central Asia cooperation mechanism, and maintained close coordination and collaboration in the United Nations, the SCO, and the Conference on Interaction and Confidence-Building Measures in Asia, among other multilateral organizations. We have actively supported each other’s constructive proposals for international cooperation, and taken resolute measures to safeguard our shared strategic, security, and development interests.
China and Kazakhstan can and will accomplish a great deal in bilateral cooperation in the years to come. I hope my visit will help renew our traditional friendship and deepen the all-round cooperation between our countries. During my visit, President Tokayev and I will meet and plan the way forward for further growth of China-Kazakhstan relations and discuss how best to take the China-Kazakhstan permanent comprehensive strategic partnership to new heights.
First, our two countries need to further consolidate our political tradition of mutual support.
As a Chinese saying goes, “We must be people of our word in dealing with friends.” China will continue to treat our Kazakh friends with sincerity and engage them with trust. China will work with Kazakhstan to further consolidate mutual political trust, strengthen strategic communication, and firmly support each other on issues that bear on our respective core interests and are of major concern to us. As always, China will support Kazakhstan in upholding its independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity, in continuing on the development path suited to its national conditions, in implementing domestic and foreign policies in the interest of its development and prosperity, and in opposing interference in its internal affairs by any external forces. Our two countries need to always follow the four principles that hold key to the success of our cooperation, namely, mutual respect, good neighborly friendship, solidarity in trying times, and mutual benefit, so as to ensure sustained and steady growth of China-Kazakhstan relations.
Second, our two countries need to stay committed to the golden rule of mutual benefit and win-win in our cooperation.
China and Kazakhstan have different yet complementary resource endowments and industries. This offers huge potential for cooperation. China stands ready to promote greater synergy between Belt and Road cooperation and the economic policies under a Just Kazakhstan at a faster pace, and further open our super-sized market to Kazakhstan so that our Kazakh friends can share the opportunities of our development. Our two countries need to deepen cooperation in traditional sectors including business, trade, industrial capacity, investment, energy, mining and agriculture, and enhance the efficiency of customs clearance at border ports. We need to ensure the high-quality operation of the China-Europe Railway Express, advance the construction of the Trans-Caspian International Transport Route, and make the network connecting our two countries more multidimensional, diverse and efficient. We need to significantly unleash the potential for cooperation in such high-tech areas as new energy, the digital economy, artificial intelligence, cross-border e-commerce, aviation and aerospace, and build more industrial and supply chains with high added-values, in order to inject new impetus to our cooperation.
Third, our two countries need to strengthen public support for an everlasting China-Kazakhstan friendship.
A deeper and stronger China-Kazakhstan friendship is what our two peoples aspire to. It is therefore important that we carry forward such friendship and enhance mutual understanding and affinity between our peoples through a diverse range of cultural and people-to-people exchange programs. Our two countries need to ensure the success of the Luban Workshop, Confucius Institutes, and the Kazakh campus of the Northwestern Polytechnical University to foster future generations who will carry forward the China-Kazakhstan friendship. China welcomes joint education programs and joint research projects between Chinese and Kazakh higher education institutions, think tanks and research institutes. China supports closer interactions between people from all sectors across Chinese and Kazakh societies. Both countries need to encourage more twinning between our provinces and cities and more cooperation on education, tourism, archaeology, arts, and media, so as to expand the depth and scope of China-Kazakhstan cultural and people-to-people exchanges.
Fourth, our two countries need to be responsive to the accelerated changes on a scale unseen in a century that are unfolding across the world.
Changes and turbulence in the global landscape pose new threats and new challenges, but also bring new opportunities and create new possibilities for all-round cooperation of mutual benefit between China and Kazakhstan. We Chinese believe that in every challenge lies an opportunity, and that challenges and opportunities are interchangeable. China stands ready to join hands with Kazakhstan in response to the changes of historic significance that are taking place in our world and in our times. We need to foster new opportunities amid crises, and open up new horizons on a shifting landscape. China will work with Kazakhstan to uphold the international system with the United Nations at its core and the international order underpinned by international law, act on true multilateralism, oppose hegemonism, power politics and bloc confrontation. We will work together to build an equal and orderly multipolar world, promote universally beneficial and inclusive economic globalization, and bring about more positivity and certainty to world peace and stability.
Another important item on my agenda in Kazakhstan is to attend the SCO Summit. China highly commends the successful and fruitful work Kazakhstan has done in its capacity as the SCO chair to grow the influence of the organization. I have no doubt that the SCO Astana Summit will be a great success through concerted efforts of all parties and will help rally the SCO family closer and open up new prospects for SCO cooperation.
As a Chinese saying goes, “Success comes to those who share in one purpose. Triumph belongs to those who pull together in times of challenge.” In Kazakhstan, people say that five fingers held together make a powerful fist, and many people working in unity form a mighty force.
China will work shoulder to shoulder with Kazakhstan on the path to national prosperity and rejuvenation. Let us jointly draw up a new blueprint for closer cooperation and open a new chapter in China-Kazakhstan friendly relations."
"Address by H.E. Xi Jinping
President of the People’s Republic of China
At the Conference Marking the 70th Anniversary of the
Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence
June 28, 2024
Distinguished Guests,
Diplomatic Envoys,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
Seventy years ago, the Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence were officially initiated. It marked a groundbreaking and epoch-making achievement in the history of international relations. Today we gather here to commemorate its 70th anniversary for the purpose of carrying forward these principles under the new circumstances, building together a community with a shared future for mankind, and providing a strong driving force for human progress.
At the outset, on behalf of the Chinese government and people and in my own name, let me extend a warm welcome to all distinguished guests and friends present here!
In the course of the modern history of human society, handling well state-to-state relations, jointly maintaining world peace and tranquility, and promoting development and progress for humanity have always been big topics on the minds of all nations.
The Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence answered the call of the times, and its initiation was an inevitable historic development. In the wake of the Second World War, national independence and liberation movements swept across the globe, and the colonial system around the world crumbled and collapsed. At the same time, the world was overshadowed by the dark clouds of the Cold War and menaced by the rampant clamors that “Might is right.” Newly independent countries aspired to safeguard their sovereignty and grow their national economy. New China followed the principle of independence, actively sought peaceful coexistence with all countries, and endeavored to improve its external environment, especially in its neighborhood. Against this backdrop, the Chinese leadership specified the Five Principles in their entirety for the first time, namely, mutual respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity, mutual non-aggression, mutual non-interference in each other’s internal affairs, equality and mutual benefit, and peaceful coexistence. They included the Five Principles in the China-India and China-Myanmar joint statements, which jointly called for making them basic norms for state-to-state relations.
The Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence were born in Asia, but quickly ascended to the world stage. In 1955, more than 20 Asian and African countries attended the Bandung Conference. They proposed ten principles for handling state-to-state relations on the basis of the Five Principles, and advocated the Bandung spirit of solidarity, friendship and cooperation. The Non-Aligned Movement that rose in the 1960s adopted the Five Principles as its guiding principles. The Declaration on Principles of International Law adopted at the 25th Session of the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) in 1970 and the Declaration on the Establishment of the New International Economic Order adopted at the Sixth Special UNGA Session in 1974 both endorsed the Five Principles. With their inclusion in important international documents, the Five Principles have been widely recognized and observed by the international community.
Over the past 70 years, the Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence have transcended time and space and overcome estrangement, showing robust resilience and everlasting relevance. They have become open, inclusive, and universally applicable basic norms for international relations and fundamental principles of international law. They have made indelible historic contributions to the cause of human progress.
First, the Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence have set a historic benchmark for international relations and international rule of law.
They fully conform with the purposes and principles of the U.N. Charter, with the evolving trend of international relations of our times, and with the fundamental interests of all nations. In addition, they stress the importance of mutuality and equality in handling state-to-state relations, thus highlighting the essence of international rule of law, i.e. the intercorrelation of rights, obligations and responsibilities of all countries. The Five Principles provide a whole set of basic norms for peaceful coexistence among countries across political, security, economic and diplomatic domains. They constitute an unequivocal and effective code of conduct for all countries to follow in promoting the spirit of international rule of law and finding the right way to get along with each other.
Second, the Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence have served as the prime guidance for the establishment and development of relations between countries with different social systems.
When following the Five Principles, even countries that differ from each other in social system, ideology, history, culture, faith, development stage, and size can build a relationship of mutual trust, friendship and cooperation. The Five Principles offer a new path toward peaceful settlement of historic issues and international disputes, triumphing over obsolete, narrow-minded, antagonistic and confrontational mindsets such as bloc politics and sphere of influence.
Third, the Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence have been a powerful rallying force behind the efforts of developing countries to pursue cooperation and self-strength through unity.
They mirror the deep thoughts of developing countries about improving their future and about reform and progress. Inspired and encouraged by the Five Principles, more and more countries in Asia, Africa and Latin America have voiced and extended support to each other, stood up against foreign interference, and embarked on an independent path of development. The Five Principles have also boosted South-South cooperation, and improved and further developed North-South relations.
Fourth, the Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence have contributed historic wisdom to the reform and improvement of the international order.
The Five Principles were initiated with the purpose of protecting the interests and pursuits of small and weak countries from power politics. They categorically oppose imperialism, colonialism and hegemonism, and reject belligerent and bullying practices of the law of the jungle. They have laid an important intellectual foundation for a more just and equitable international order.
Having traversed an extraordinary journey of 70 years, the Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence are a common asset of the international community to be valued, inherited and further promoted. At this moment, I recall with deep admiration leaders of the older generation who jointly initiated the Five Principles. I also wish to pay high tribute to the visionaries from all countries who have been promoting the Five Principles with perseverance over the years!
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
The baton of history is passed from generation to generation, and the cause of human progress moves forward from one era to another as mankind seek answers to the questions of the times. Seventy years ago, our forefathers, who experienced the scourge of hot wars and the confrontation of the Cold War, concluded that the Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence were the crucial way to safeguard peace and sovereignty. This answer has withstood the test of international vicissitudes, and has become more appealing rather than obsolete. Seventy years later today, challenged by the historic question of “what kind of world to build and how to build it,” China has answered the call of the times by proposing a community with a shared future for mankind. Today, this Chinese initiative has become an international consensus. The beautiful vision has been put into productive actions. It is moving the world to a bright future of peace, security, prosperity and progress.
The Vision of Building a Community with a Shared Future for Mankind carries forward the same spirit of the Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence. Both are rooted in traditional Chinese values such as “Be kind to your neighbor,” “Seek amity through integrity,” and “Promote harmony among all nations.” Both attest to China’s diplomatic tenets of self-confidence, self-reliance, justice, protection of the disadvantaged, and benevolence. Both demonstrate the broad vision of the Communist Party of China to contribute more to humanity. Both manifest China’s firm resolve to follow the path of peaceful development. The Vision of Building a Community with a Shared Future for Mankind is the most effective move to sustain, promote and upgrade the Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence in the new circumstances.
The Vision captures the reality that all countries have a shared future and intertwined interests, and sets a new model of equality and coexistence for international relations.
China believes that all countries, regardless of their size, strength and wealth, are equal members of the international community. They have common interests, common rights, and common responsibilities in international affairs. All countries should join hands to overcome challenges, achieve shared prosperity, build an open, inclusive, clean and beautiful world of lasting peace, universal security, and shared prosperity, and realize peaceful coexistence with greater security and prosperity for mankind.
The Vision responds to the world’s prevailing trend of peace, development, cooperation and win-win, and opens up new prospects for peace and progress.
China calls on all countries to bear in mind the future of humanity and the wellbeing of the people, and uphold their essential commitment to equality, mutual benefit and peaceful coexistence. We should all champion the common values of humanity, promote global governance that features extensive consultation and joint contribution for shared benefit, and cultivate a new type of international relations. We should all work together to implement the Global Development Initiative, the Global Security Initiative and the Global Civilization Initiative, advance high-quality Belt and Road cooperation, and deliver more benefits to all peoples.
The Vision keeps pace with the historic trend toward multipolarity and economic globalization, and inspires new ways to achieve development and security.
China has been working together with all sides to take profound and real measures to build a community with a shared future for mankind. We have together enabled the Vision to make historic achievements—expanding from bilateral to multilateral, regional to global, development to security, and cooperation to governance. This has guided and boosted the efforts for an equal and orderly multipolar world and a universally beneficial and inclusive economic globalization. It has given the international community broad prospects of peace and stability, and presented the world with more prosperity and development.
Looking at the past and future at this critical moment in history, we believe our exploration for the betterment of human civilization will not end, and our efforts for a better world will not end. No matter how the world evolves, one basic fact will not change. There is only one Planet Earth in the universe, and the whole mankind have one common home. Our shared future depends on Earth. We must take good care of it, and leave a happy land for our future generations.
The future beckons with promise, and challenges must be tackled. At this historic moment when mankind have to choose between peace and war, prosperity and recession, unity and confrontation, we must champion more than ever the essence of the Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence, and we must always strive tirelessly for the lofty goal of building a community with a shared future for mankind.
We need to uphold the principle of sovereign equality.
The Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence center on the principle of sovereign equality. And on that basis, they promote equal rights, equal opportunities and equal norms for every country. They reject the big subduing the small, the strong bullying the weak, and the rich exploiting the poor. An equal and orderly multipolar world means every country can find its place in a multipolar system and play its due role pursuant to international law, so that the process of multipolarization is stable and constructive on the whole.
We need to cement the foundation of mutual respect.
Countries must make equality, mutual respect and mutual trust the ground rules of engagement. They should show respect for different historical and cultural traditions and different stages of development, for each other’s core interests and major concerns, and for the development paths and systems independently chosen by people of all countries. We must jointly uphold the “golden rule” of non-interference, and jointly oppose acts of imposing one’s will on others, stoking bloc confrontation, creating small circles, and forcing others to pick sides.
We need to turn the vision for peace and security into reality.
The past and present have enlightened us that all countries must shoulder their common responsibility for peace, and commit to a path of peaceful development. They must work together to seek peace, safeguard peace, and enjoy peace. In today’s interdependent world, absolute security and exclusive security are just not viable. The China-proposed Global Security Initiative is aimed to advocate the vision of common, comprehensive, cooperative and sustainable security. It strives to achieve development and security through cooperation, and put in place a more balanced, effective and sustainable security architecture.
We need to unite all forces to achieve prosperity.
An ancient Chinese philosopher observed, “The benevolent treat others with love, and the wise share with others benefits.” As a Latin American saying goes, “The only way to be profitably national is to be generously universal.” An Arab proverb has it, “With unity, the fire grows; without unity, the fire extinguishes.” In the era of economic globalization, what is needed is not gaps of division but bridges of communication, not iron curtains of confrontation but highways of cooperation. China has been advocating a universally beneficial and inclusive economic globalization, promoting high-quality Belt and Road cooperation, and endeavoring to deliver on the Global Development Initiative. Our goal is to benefit all with the opportunity of development, to diversify development paths, to help all nations share development fruits, to encourage common development and prosperity for all countries in the global village, and to turn win-win into a solid consensus.
We need to commit to fairness and justice.
Without them, power politics will be the order of the day, and the weak will be at the mercy of the strong. In face of the new developments and challenges, the authority and central role of the United Nations can only be strengthened rather than weakened. The purposes and principles of the U.N. Charter are never outdated, and they are getting ever more important. China advocates the vision of global governance featuring extensive consultation and joint contribution for shared benefit, and China believes in true multilateralism. Our goal is that international rules should be made and observed by all countries. World affairs should be handled through extensive consultation, not dictated by those with more muscles.
We need to embrace an open and inclusive mindset.
All countries are on board the same giant ship. It carries on it not only aspirations for peace, economic prosperity and technological advancement, but also the diversity of civilizations and the continuation of the human species. In history, different civilizations helped each other prosper through interactions, and brought about great progress and prosperity for mankind. This has left us with splendid chapters of mutual reinforcement and mutual learning among various civilizations.  The Global Civilization Initiative proposed by China is aimed at increasing understanding and friendship among peoples and promoting tolerance and mutual learning among civilizations. The world is big enough to accommodate the common development and common progress of all countries. It is entirely possible for different civilizations to prosper together and inspire each other through mutual learning on an equal footing.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
The past 70 years have proved time and again that an effective way for countries to meet challenges together and create a better future is to enhance unity, cooperation, communication and understanding. Of all the forces in the world, the Global South stands out with a strong momentum, playing a vital role in promoting human progress.
Standing at a new historical starting point, the Global South should be more open and more inclusive, and join hands together to take the lead in building a community with a shared future for mankind.
Together, we should be the staunch force for peace.
We should promote peaceful settlement of international disputes, and participate constructively in the political settlement of international and regional hotspot issues.
Together, we should be the core driving force for open development.
We should restore development as the central international agenda item, reinvigorate global partnerships for development, and deepen South-South cooperation as well as North-South dialogue.
Together, we should be the construction team of global governance.
We should actively participate in reforming and developing the global governance system, expand the common interests of all sides, and make the global governance architecture more balanced and effective.
Together, we should be the advocates for exchange among civilizations.
We should enhance inter-civilization communication and dialogue, and strengthen experience sharing on governance. We should deepen exchanges in education, science, technology and culture as well as subnational, people-to-people and youth interactions.
To better support Global South cooperation, China will establish a Global South research center. It will provide 1,000 scholarships under the Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence Scholarship of Excellence and 100,000 training opportunities to Global South countries in the coming five years. It will also launch a Global South youth leaders program. China will continue to make good use of the China-U.N. Peace and Development Fund, the Global Development and South-South Cooperation Fund, and the Climate Change South-South Cooperation Fund, and will work with interested parties to set up a tripartite center of excellence for the implementation of the Global Development Initiative, so as to facilitate growth in Global South countries. It will renew the China-IFAD South-South and Triangular Cooperation Facility, and make an additional Renminbi contribution equivalent to US$10 million to be used to support agricultural development of the Global South. China is ready to discuss free trade arrangements with more Global South countries, continue to support the WTO’s Aid for Trade initiative, and renew its contribution to the WTO’s China Program. It welcomes more Global South countries to join the Initiative on International Trade and Economic Cooperation Framework for Digital Economy and Green Development. Between now and 2030, China’s import from fellow developing countries is expected to exceed US$8 trillion.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
The Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence has been written into China’s Constitution long before. They are the bedrock of China’s independent foreign policy of peace. At present, China is working to build a great modern socialist country in all respects and achieve national rejuvenation through the Chinese path to modernization. On this new journey, we will continue to champion the Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence, work with all countries to build a community with a shared future for mankind, and make new and greater contributions to safeguarding world peace and promoting common development.
China’s resolve to stay on the path of peaceful development will not change.
We will never take the trodden path of colonial plundering, or the wrong path of seeking hegemony when one becomes strong. We will stay on the right path of peaceful development. Among the world’s major countries, China has the best track record with respect to peace and security. It has been exploring for a distinctly Chinese approach to resolving hotspot issues. It has been playing a constructive role in the Ukraine crisis, the Palestinian-Israeli conflict, and issues relating to the Korean Peninsula, Iran, Myanmar, and Afghanistan. Every increase of China’s strength is an increase of the prospects of world peace.
China’s resolve to develop friendship and cooperation with all countries will not change.
We will actively expand global partnerships based on equality, openness, and cooperation, and commit to expanding shared interests with all countries. China will promote coordination and sound interactions among major countries, and work to foster major-country dynamics featuring peaceful coexistence, overall stability, and balanced development. In its neighborhood, China will adhere to the principle of amity, sincerity, mutual benefit, and inclusiveness as well as the policy of developing friendship and partnership with its neighbors. It will seek to deepen friendship, trust and common interests with its neighboring countries. With developing countries, China will stay committed to the principle of sincerity, real results, amity, and good faith, and take the right approach to friendship and interests. It will strengthen unity and cooperation with developing countries and safeguard our common interests. China will practice true multilateralism, and take an active part in the reform and improvement of the global governance system.
China’s resolve to promote common development across the world will not change.
High-quality development of the Chinese economy will provide strong impetus to world economic growth. Modernization achieved by 1.4 billion Chinese people means the addition of a new super-large market larger than all developed countries combined. China will only open itself ever wider to the outside world. Its door will never close. We are planning to take, and in some cases already taking, major steps to further deepen reform across the board and expand institutional opening up. We will build a business environment that is more solidly based on market and rule of law and is up to international standards. “Small yard with high fences,” decoupling, and severing industrial and supply chains simply run counter to the tide of history. They will do nothing but harm the common interests of the international community.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
A forerunner of Chinese revolution wrote a century ago, “The course of history is never smooth. It is sometimes beset with difficulties and obstacles. Nothing short of a heroic spirit can help surmount them.” Today, the historic baton of advancing world peace and development has been passed to our generation. Let us take the 70th anniversary of the Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence as a starting point, shoulder the historic missions, and forge ahead together to build a community with a shared future for mankind and usher in an even better future for humanity.
Thank you."
"Dalian, June 25, 2024
Your Excellency President Andrzej Duda,
Your Excellency Prime Minister Pham Minh Chinh,
Professor Klaus Schwab,
Your Excellencies Heads of International Organizations,
Distinguished Guests,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
It is a great pleasure to join friends, old and new, here in the beautiful city of Dalian for the 15th Annual Meeting of the New Champions. Let me begin by extending, on behalf of the Chinese government, warm congratulations on the opening of the annual meeting and cordial welcome to all participants and journalists.
It has been five years since the Summer Davos was last held in Dalian. In the past five years, global transformation not seen in a century unfolded at a faster pace and world economic development reached a critical juncture. As many people wonder where the future of the world lies, this annual meeting, focusing on “Next Frontiers for Growth,” is particularly relevant. I believe you all have your own thoughts and insights about the significance and value of exploring next frontiers for growth. Here, I would like to share with you three observations.
First, we need to confront the growth predicament of the world economy.
The road to recovery has been treacherous since the onset of COVID-19. According to forecasts of the International Monetary Fund and other institutions, global growth may remain moderate or even slow in the coming years, and generally below the pre-pandemic level. Anemic global growth is not only caused by temporary factors such as impact of the pandemic, high inflation and rising debt. It is also ascribed to some deep-seated problems and intrinsic issues. From a cyclical perspective, the three industrial revolutions since the 1760s, which were respectively marked by the utilization of steam engines, electricity and information technologies, all transformed the way of production and life in human society. Each was followed by a surge in global growth. However, when the impetus unleashed by existing technological models diminished, global growth would slide into a period of stagnation. The impact of such fundamental transformation is manifold.
At the macro level,
we would see a slowdown of economic growth, and find it more difficult to make the pie of global economy bigger.
At the meso level,
we would see declining return on investment and diminishing economies of scale, with more business sectors turning from blue to red oceans.
At the micro level,
we would see intensifying competition among market players and spiraling “involution.” The neck-to-neck contest for available resources is, to some extent, triggering problems including backlash against globalization and escalation of geopolitical conflicts.
Confronted with the growth predicament of the world economy, maximizing one’s own benefits at the expense of others’ interests, or resorting to regressive actions of decoupling, disrupting supply chains and building small yards with high fences would only push up operational costs, sever the economic links between regions and aggravate tensions and disputes. This would drag the world into a destructive spiral where the fierce competition for a larger slice ends up in a diminishing pie. As we Chinese often say, “Range far your eye over long vistas.” In the current context, the right choice is to approach development issues with a longer view and broader mind, and join hands with others to make the pie bigger while pursuing one’s legitimate interests. This is how we could sustain the growth of the world economy, and open new horizon for our own development.
Second, we need to seize the new opportunities brought by the sci-tech revolution and industrial transformation.
To overcome the growth predicament, we need to cultivate new engines for growth. We are delighted to see that as the new round of sci-tech revolution and industrial transformation deepens, global innovation activities in science and technology have become more intensive and dynamic than ever before. With the sparks ignited across domains, next frontiers for growth are starting to take shape.
From a technology perspective,
this round of sci-tech revolution is mainly powered by progress in intelligent, green and health technologies. The rapid advance of cutting-edge information, energy and biological technologies has provided new pathways for tackling climate change, energy crisis and other major challenges facing humanity. It has also notably enhanced the quality and efficiency of the supply system, and catalyzed and generated massive new demand.
From an industry perspective,
breakthroughs and integration of frontier technologies have redefined traditional production function, triggered a quantum leap in productivity, and opened up new domains and avenues of business, including artificial intelligence (AI), green energy and biomedicine. A host of sectors are expected to evolve into multi-trillion-dollar pillar industries.
From a business model perspective,
as the sci-tech revolution progresses, the organization of economic activities and industries is undergoing rapid transformation, which is characterized by the features of platform-based operation, networked structure and ubiquitous presence. New forms and models of business such as online services, C2M customization, and smart manufacturing are quickly emerging, making our life more convenient, and giving everyone a fair and accessible chance to participate. In a word, a number of frontier technologies and industries with the potential of explosive growth are metamorphosing and ready to burst onto the stage. This brings light and hope for catapulting the world economy into a new upward cycle.
To embrace the global trend of sci-tech advances and industrial development, all countries are making forward planning and deployment. China has also taken exploratory steps in this regard. In recent years, we have continued to promote high-quality development, accelerate the cultivation of new quality productive forces, and foster new drivers of growth. These efforts have provided strong dynamism for China’s economic development, and created greater cooperation space for companies around the world.
The rapid rise of China’s new industries is in line with the global trend of sci-tech revolution and green development.
Seizing the favorable opportunities from the sci-tech revolution and industrial transformation worldwide, China has been working hard to advance sci-tech innovation. We encourage companies to be first movers and make continuous investments in cutting-edge fields. Now, after years of cultivation, a number of enterprises and industries in China have gained an edge internationally. In particular, China has been vigorously developing green industries in recent years, such as new energy, to address climate change with concrete actions and meet the twin goals of carbon peak and carbon neutrality. As a result, China’s installed capacity of hydropower, wind power, solar power and nuclear power under construction has all been topping the world for many years running. And renewable energy now accounts for over 50 percent of China’s total installed capacity. Electric vehicles, lithium batteries and photovoltaic products made by Chinese companies have not only met domestic demand, but also enriched supply in the international market, eased the pressure of inflation worldwide, and contributed to the global climate response.
The rapid rise of China’s new industries is rooted in its unique comparative advantages.
China has a super-sized market of more than 1.4 billion people, a complete industrial supporting system, abundant labor force and talent pool, and diverse scenarios for application. Plus, Chinese consumers are fairly receptive to new technologies. All these make China a broad stage for enterprises to pursue innovation and upgrade their products. The economies of scale can help to reduce innovation costs for enterprises and accommodate the growth of different technology roadmaps and business models. That is also how China’s emerging industries get their competitiveness.
The rapid rise of China’s new industries is a testament to the principal role of enterprises in innovation.
Enterprises stand at the forefront of the market. They are most sensitive to the changes of demands, and have the strongest desire for innovation. From the Chinese government’s perspective, we have been doing our best to foster a market-oriented, world-class business environment within a sound legal framework. To that end, we have been abolishing regulations that limit market access and fair competition, facilitating the flow of factors of innovation to enterprises and promoting fine entrepreneurial spirit, so that enterprises can fully unleash the dynamism of innovation. China’s large market is open. Foreign companies compete, communicate and cooperate with domestic ones on a level playing field, and they have become a major force enabling the birth and growth of emerging industries.
The rapid growth of new industries and new drivers has buttressed the sound and sustained development of the Chinese economy.
Since the start of this year, the Chinese economy has sustained the momentum of recovery. It got off to a good start in the first quarter with a 5.3 percent year-on-year growth, and continued steady growth in the second quarter. We have the confidence and capability to achieve the growth target of around 5 percent for this year.
Third, we need to open up a vast blue ocean for future economic development.
Facing major opportunities brought by the latest round of sci-tech revolution and industrial transformation, we will, as always, keep to the direction of building an open world economy, harness the momentum, make bold explorations, and work together to create new development space. In this connection, I wish to propose the following:
—First, deepening sci-tech exchanges and cooperation.
Science and technology are key variables in future development. Major sci-tech progress usually comes from unrelenting research, accumulation and extensive cooperation. The exploration of new frontiers should not be seen as a zero-sum game. It is a process where all players compete for excellence and make progress together. Resorting to the “small yard, high fence” approach cannot hold back the development of others; it only ends up constraining oneself. The wise thing to do is to create an open, fair and nondiscriminatory environment for sci-tech innovation on the basis of protecting intellectual property, so as to enable the free flow of ideas for innovation and creation.
—Second, enhancing the foundation for green development.
There is only one Earth for humanity. Growth in the future has to be premised on harmony between man and nature. We need to stand by the goals and principles of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and its Paris Agreement, follow the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities, and deliver on our respective emission reduction responsibilities. We cannot slow down our pace in green transition in exchange for short-term growth, or practice protectionism in the name of green development or environmental protection. Green transition itself provides huge potential for development. We need to jointly advance the development of green and low-carbon industries and foster more growth drivers for the green economy.
—Third, safeguarding an open market environment.
The history of global economic development shows that openness brings progress while isolation leaves one behind. Only through open interactions, exchanges and mutual learning can we keep pushing the boundaries of development and discover and open up new frontiers. In many ways, the depth of international cooperation determines the height of human development. So it is essential that we embrace each other with open arms and work closely with each other, reject bloc confrontation and decoupling, keep industrial and supply chains stable and smooth, and advance trade and investment liberalization and facilitation, so as to promote the sound development of globalization and form a strong synergy for global economic growth.
—Fourth, promoting inclusive and mutually beneficial development.
New technologies such as AI and big data, while contributing to economic growth, may also cause problems such as structural unemployment, economic inequality and technology and AI divide. It is important to coordinate the development and governance of new technologies, make timely improvements to laws and governance frameworks to address conflicting rules and social risks brought by frontier technologies and industrial development, and strive to achieve more inclusive development that benefits all. It is also important to provide education and training to vulnerable groups and upskill the workforce, so that more countries and people can benefit from innovation.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
Development has no limits. Exploration knows no boundary. China stands ready to join hands with all countries to sail the giant ship of the world economy into a vast blue ocean and create an even brighter future for humanity.
I wish the annual meeting a full success.
Thank you."
"Kuala Lumpur, June 19, 2024
Your Honorable Prime Minister Dato’ Seri Anwar Ibrahim,
Distinguished Guests,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
Good evening! It’s such a pleasure to join all of you tonight to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the establishment of China-Malaysia diplomatic relations, and the Year of China-Malaysia Friendship. On behalf of the Chinese government and people, I would like to extend heartfelt greetings and best wishes to the people of Malaysia, and sincere appreciation to friends from across the society who have long been committed to the friendship between China and Malaysia.
As President Xi Jinping pointed out, China and Malaysia are neighbors with a millennium-old friendship, friends connected by heart, and partners for win-win cooperation. We the Chinese believe that “good neighbors wish each other well.” So when I see, during my visit, your beautiful country making rapid progress and your people living a life of happiness and prosperity, I am truly heartened.
Over the past 50 years of diplomatic ties, China and Malaysia have all along treated each other with kindness and sincerity, and remained good neighbors, good friends and good partners. As a Chinese saying goes, “towering trees have deep roots, rolling rivers have abundant sources.” The development of this relationship in the past five decades offers us many important experience and inspirations. They are our shared valuable assets.
The first is commitment to independence of strategies.
Fifty years ago, Malaysia withstood the pressure of the Cold War and entered into diplomatic relations with China, taking the lead among ASEAN countries. Over the following half a century, China-Malaysia relations have braved the waves and grown stronger, undisturbed by wind and rain, and never interrupted by external forces. Our two countries have rendered each other firm support in exploring the development paths suited to our national conditions. Ours is a fine example of relations between the countries in the region.
The second is commitment to win-win cooperation.
China has been Malaysia’s largest trading partner for 15 consecutive years. Fruits from Malaysia like durian and mangosteen are now quite trending among Chinese consumers. Through mutually beneficial cooperation, our two countries have both achieved growth and built ever closer economic ties, which have created strong impetus for our respective modernization drive.
The third is commitment to mutual support.
“To share weal and woe” is a proverb widely used in both China and Malaysia. From the Asian financial crisis, the Indian Ocean tsunami and the Wenchuan earthquake to the COVID-19 pandemic, China and Malaysia have stood together in times of adversity, come to each other’s assistance, and increased understanding and trust.
And the fourth is commitment to cultural affinity.
Six hundred years ago, Chinese navigator Zheng He visited Malacca five times during his seven outbound voyages, sowing the seed of peace and friendship. The Confucian culture and the Islamic culture coexist in Malaysia, inspiring and enriching each other. People-to-people exchanges between our two countries are growing stronger, with China becoming one of Malaysia’s largest sources of tourists. We treat each other with sincerity, and this has brought us even closer.
To name 2024 the Year of China-Malaysia Friendship is of special significance.
“Friendship” is a word that carries great weight, something especially precious today.
In a world fraught with changes and turbulence, some countries and regions have been plunged into wars and chaos, and countless civilians displaced and rendered homeless. It’s sad to admit that this is a world that lacks peace and tranquility, but never disputes and conflicts; a world that lacks rationality and humility, but never arbitrary and brutal acts; a world that lacks empathy, but never egocentrism; and a world that lacks openness and cooperation, but never blockade and confrontation. There might be many reasons behind all these hostilities, all these bad feelings that could easily escalate into conflicts and even wars, but they can all boil down to two things:
First, objective interests.
If a country only has its own interests in mind and gives no regard to the development of others, especially when facing such a sluggish global economy, resources will be further strained, competition will be fiercer, and tussles and conflicts will increase.
Second, subjective perception.
Showing no respect for the differences between nations, cultures, and development paths, disregarding other’s core interests, and ignoring the bottom line of human conscience... Acts such as these will only aggravate the estrangement and conflicts in our society.
What should be done then? I think two things are key here. First, in terms of interests, we should put more emphasis on mutually beneficial and win-win cooperation, and completely discard the zero-sum game thinking and practices. Second, in terms of perception, we should try harder to stand in others’ shoes. This could be best described by the words of wisdom from ancient China: “Do not do to others what you don’t want others to do to you.”
I believe our celebrations for the Year of China-Malaysia Friendship is not only designed to grow our bilateral relations, but also to champion the spirit of friendship through our actions, and to call on and rally more from across the world to join hands and cross over to a better, shared future.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
Be it in the past, present or future, friendship remains the defining feature of China-Malaysia relations. We have brought this relationship to a new starting point, and we share the aspiration to carry it forward to future generations. To this end, I wish to make four proposals.
First, enhance our traditional friendship and consolidate the foundation for bilateral relations.
It is important to keep to the right direction in growing this bilateral relationship, respect each other’s core interests and major concerns, build stronger political mutual trust, and pursue wide-ranging cooperation in the context of building a China-Malaysia community with a shared future.
Second, synergize our development strategies and expand shared interests.
It is important to develop greater synergy between the Belt and Road Initiative and the Madani Economy Framework, step up the trade in agricultural and other products, and tap the potential of cooperation in emerging areas such as green energy and advanced manufacturing, so as to deliver more benefits to our two peoples.
Third, deepen exchanges and mutual learning to cement the foundation for people-to-people affinity.
It is important to jointly implement the Global Civilization Initiative, expand exchanges and cooperation in culture, tourism, education, sports and other fields, and build a stronger bond between our peoples.
Fourth, strengthen solidarity and coordination to address global challenges together.
China is ready to work with Malaysia to advocate an equal and orderly multipolar world and a universally beneficial and inclusive economic globalization, and jointly build a peaceful, safe and secure, prosperous, beautiful, amicable and harmonious home in Asia.
Going forward, China will march ahead together with Malaysia toward modernization, champion friendship as the overarching theme in our bilateral relations, and write a new chapter of a shared future. May China-Malaysia friendship last forever！
Thank you."
"Perth, June 18, 2024
Prime Minister Albanese,
Friends from the Business Community,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Good morning. It is a pleasure to meet friends, old and new, in the beautiful city of Perth. Fourteen years since its launch, the China-Australia CEO Roundtable has grown into an important platform for face-to-face exchanges between government and business of the two countries. When the co-chairs walked us through your morning discussions, I could sense your confidence in the future of business development and your hopes for closer cooperation.
This year marks the 10th anniversary of President Xi Jinping’s state visit to Australia as well as the establishment of China-Australia comprehensive strategic partnership. Amid overall progress in the past decade, China-Australia relations also experienced some ups and downs. Thanks to efforts from both sides, the relationship is returning to the right track, and showing a good momentum of steady improvement.
My current visit has brought me to three Australian cities. As I talked to friends across sectors, I felt a strong, widespread desire for a better relationship, and great expectations for deepening mutually beneficial cooperation. A review of the past 52 years of our diplomatic ties tells us this:
As long as our two countries truly respect each other’s national conditions, system and core interests, we can cement the foundation of our mutual trust; as long as we engage in sincere dialogue, and accommodate and understand each other, we can properly manage differences and disagreements; and as long as we stay open and cooperative, and ready to help each other succeed, we can achieve more win-win results.
All these are valuable experience gained through practice and exploration, and should be duly cherished. They could give us the wisdom and inspiration needed to develop a right perception of each other, keep to friendly cooperation and make sure that our comprehensive strategic partnership will navigate through the ever-changing international landscape and keep moving forward.
Economic and trade cooperation is often seen as the “ballast” in state-to-state relations, and hence the business circle pay particular attention to the business ties between our two countries. I would suggest approaching the business relations from the overall context of China-Australia comprehensive strategic partnership. Examining our relationship from a comprehensive and strategic perspective helps us get the big picture right.
First, China and Australia benefit from each other’s development; we are a close community of shared interests.
For 15 years in a row, China has been Australia’s largest trading partner, export market and source of imports. Trade with China accounts for more than 30 percent of Australia’s total foreign trade. Decades of experience shows time and again that both our economies benefit when our economic and trade cooperation is sound and stable; and both economies suffer when our cooperation is in trouble. China’s development is an opportunity, not a challenge, for Australia.
Second, our economies complement each other; we are natural partners for cooperation.
Australia is rich in mineral resources and well-known for its agro-products, and has many leading technologies in sci-tech and industrial innovation. China, on its part, has a super-sized market of 1.4 billion people, a complete industrial system, abundant high-caliber innovators, and diverse scenarios for the application of innovations. Through cooperation, we can turn our complementarity into a robust momentum of development in both countries.
Third, China-Australia cooperation shows broad prospects; we are an important force for stabilizing industrial and supply chains and spurring economic growth.
China’s huge market will continue to unleash demand, creating new room for trade and investment cooperation. China’s idea to develop new quality productive forces has much in common with Australia’s Future Made in Australia Act. There is enormous potential for bilateral cooperation in emerging sectors such as green development and digital economy. Both China and Australia are important players in the international industrial division of labor. Closer cooperation between us will help keep global industrial and supply chains stable and smooth, and inject more impetus into sustained recovery in both countries, the region and the world at large.
In China, we often say, “Be a business person, talk like a business person.” For business leaders of the two countries, to talk your business well and do your business well is in itself an important contribution to China-Australia relations and the global economy. Yet I encourage you to aim higher, make the pie of win-win cooperation bigger, and contribute more to the development of our two countries and to the world.
First, consolidate cooperation in the traditional areas.
As you work to cement cooperation in agriculture, mining, and infrastructure, you may also work on extending the value chain, to make the strong stronger and sharpen your competitive edge.
Second, explore new areas of cooperation.
As China-Australia cooperation upgrades and global industrial landscape transforms, you may dig into new cooperation opportunities in trade, investment and innovation, and lose no time in making the most of them.
Third, lay the groundwork for the industries of the future.
You may want to strengthen forward-looking planning in sectors such as artificial intelligence, quantum technology, and life science, and jointly nurture potential growth areas for future China-Australia cooperation.
What’s more
, I would encourage you to venture out of the business world from time to time and be more than a business person: to contribute your share to China-Australia exchanges and cooperation in a wider range of areas, and serve as a bridge for greater understanding and friendship between our two countries. China and Australia have agreed to provide each other with multiple-entry visas of up to three to five years’ duration for tourism, business, and visiting family members on a reciprocal basis. China will also include Australia in its unilateral visa waiver program. You are most welcome to visit China more.
Let me conclude by saying that the business opportunities in China-Australia cooperation are boundless; as boundless as the Pacific Ocean. Right now, China is considering major steps to further deepen reform across the board and steadily expand institutional opening up. The business environment in China will get better and better. I hope the business leaders will seize the opportunities and join hands to produce more fruitful outcomes from development and cooperation.
Thank you."
"Auckland, June 14, 2024
Your Honorable Prime Minister Christopher Luxon,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
Good evening! It’s such a pleasure to join so many friends in the beautiful city of Auckland. On behalf of the Chinese government and people, I would like to extend heartfelt thanks to people from across the New Zealand society who have given care and support to the development of China-New Zealand relations over the years. I also wish to send my best regards to the warm and friendly people of New Zealand.
This year marks the 10th anniversary of President Xi Jinping’s visit to New Zealand and the establishment of the comprehensive strategic partnership between our two countries. At such an important moment, l am honored to be invited by Prime Minister Luxon to visit this land of fascinating beauty and abundance. We are delighted to see that in the past decade, China-New Zealand relations have made historic progress, and cooperation in various fields has advanced with unprecedented breadth and depth. New Zealand was the first developed country in the West to sign a Belt and Road cooperation document and upgrade its free trade agreement with China. China, on its part, has remained New Zealand’s largest trading partner and biggest export market. Two-way trade has doubled from around NZ$20 billion to around NZ$40 billion. Our exchanges and cooperation in areas such as culture, tourism and education, and at the sub-national level are flourishing, and the number of sister provinces/states and sister cities has grown to 42 pairs. The fruitful results of our friendly cooperation have not only generated tangible benefits to our peoples, but also greatly contributed to prosperity and stability of the region and beyond.
If we delve deeper into history, more stories of friendship and more fruits of cooperation between China and New Zealand will come into view. In the past 52 years of diplomatic ties, China-New Zealand relations have long been a pacemaker in China’s engagement with the wider developed world, and set many records along the way. The history of friendly exchanges between our two countries, which can be traced back to the 1860s when the first group of Chinese people arrived in Otago, spans nearly 160 years. For over one and a half centuries, our exchanges have continued to deepen, our cooperation has become closer, and our friendship and mutual understanding have kept growing. What I want to stress here is that despite the distance between us and the difference in national conditions, China and New Zealand have forged a natural bond of affinity and empathy, based on our many commonalities and similarities.
First, we both respect Mother Nature.
China and New Zealand are both countries with magnificent landscape and diverse ecosystems. Reverence for nature is an integral part of our traditional values. That is why we both attach great importance to environmental protection and appreciate the necessity of green development. New Zealand is renowned for being a “land of the long white cloud” and “pasture under the blue sky.” Capitalizing on its rich natural endowments, New Zealand is a developed country with advanced agricultural and pastoral sector, and an example to the world on ecological sustainability. New Zealand’s experience offers valuable inspirations for China’s modernization drive. The Chinese people believe in harmony between man and nature. Over the past years, guided by the vision of “lucid waters and lush mountains being invaluable assets,” China has made vigorous efforts to promote green and low-carbon transition, and emerged as a leader of new energy vehicles, wind power, photovoltaic and other technologies. The green development of China and New Zealand not only benefits the two countries but also makes positive contribution to building a clean and beautiful world.
Second, we both embrace cultural diversity.
China and New Zealand are both countries of multi-ethnicity. Through the exchanges, mutual learning and integration of various ethnic groups, inclusiveness has become a hallmark of both our cultures. In New Zealand, the Maori, Pacific Islands, European and Asian cultures enrich and inspire one another. In China, the distinctive cuisines, clothing styles, dialects and architectures of different regions shape the vibrant landscape of the Chinese culture. Our embrace of cultural diversity has fostered an open mindset in both countries. We both understand that resisting change will make one fall behind the times, while mutually beneficial cooperation is the only way leading to common progress. For the past decades, China and New Zealand have stayed committed to free trade, embraced the trend of economic globalization, and gained real benefits in this process. We have demonstrated with our own experience that openness and cooperation are the critical enablers of national development and prosperity.
Third, we both pursue innovation and creativity.
New Zealand has a longstanding reputation for having a robust innovation culture. Since the end of the 19th century, New Zealand has been working to boost agricultural productivity through pasture grass improvement, selective breeding and other new technologies, which makes it a world leader in agricultural technology. With continuous breakthroughs in motors, electronic control and other technologies, New Zealand has nurtured a group of world-renowned high-end brands like Fisher&Paykel. China also attaches great importance to science, technology and innovation. In recent years, we have fully implemented the innovation-driven development strategy, bringing a constant stream of new technologies, new industries and new business forms. In the Global Innovation Index 2023 published by the World Intellectual Property Organization. China and New Zealand both have a high ranking. Our two countries have a lot in common on innovation. This provides a solid foundation for enhancing our cooperation.
Fourth, we both stand for world peace.
This largely stems from our similar national characters. New Zealanders like to call themselves Kiwis. The term, as I have learned, refers to a bird and a fruit, and both are sweet and lovable. This nickname is now widely known in the world and has become a symbol of the kind, genuine and friendly people of NewZealand. In China, we often say that peace is precious, kindness is essential and sincerity is paramount. This is a principle hardwired into us by the 5,000-year Chinese civilization. Shaped by our shared traits, China and New Zealand adopt a similar philosophy and approach when it comes to international relations. We both underscore that countries should pursue peaceful relations and seek dialogue and cooperation, not confrontation or conflict, and that only in this way can regional and world peace and tranquility be safeguarded through joint efforts.
These precious commonalities are a valuable asset for our two countries. They have played a large part in the steady progress and fruitful cooperation between China and New Zealand in the past 52 years. Both sides need to cherish and protect the asset, and tap more into it as we continue to grow China-New Zealand relations.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
Changes unseen in a century are unfolding faster across the world, and world peace and development is confronted with many difficulties. But just as a New Zealand proverb goes, “Turn your face to the sun and the shadows fall behind you.” China is ready to join hands with New Zealand to stay true to our common values, carry forward our tradition of friendship and create an upgraded version of China-New Zealand comprehensive strategic partnership, so as to generate strong momentum for stability and development in our two countries, the region and beyond.
First, we should deepen and expand cooperation across the fields.
China and New Zealand enjoy great economic complementarities and broad space for cooperation. We need to cement the foundation of cooperation in traditional areas such as biomedicine, agriculture and food, and keep looking deeper for potential in emerging areas such as new energy and the digital economy to expand win-win cooperation and nurture new sources of growth.
Second, we should make our cooperation better serve the people.
This is the ultimate goal of our cooperation. The people’s well-being should be our important consideration in conducting bilateral cooperation, and inform our decisions on policy making, project planning and inputs, so strategic choices are made that truly benefit the people. We will include New Zealand in China’s unilateral visa waiver program. This will further facilitate personnel exchanges between our two countries.
Third, we should contribute to peace and development in the Asia-Pacific and beyond.
We need to strengthen communication and coordination on multilateral affairs, uphold the U.N.-centered international system and the international order based on international law, encourage all to practice true multilateralism, and work hand in hand to contribute our wisdom and energy to regional and global peace, stability, development and prosperity. In particular, amid the sluggish global economic recovery, China stands ready to work with New Zealand to be the force we are for global economic recovery and growth.
The Chinese economy has enjoyed an ever stronger momentum of recovery since the beginning of this year. In the first quarter, it got off to a good start with a 5.3 percent growth year on year, and maintained strong consumption, steady increase in investment, elevated levels of imports and exports and rising market confidence. In particular, the high-tech manufacturing industry and emerging industries are showing good momentum and fast strengthening China’s new sources of growth. Forecasts for the Chinese economy are being upgraded by international institutions including the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. China will continue to be the largest engine of global growth. Looking over a longer horizon, the Chinese economy will sustain a positive trajectory over the long run as we advance Chinese modernization in all respects through high-quality development and continuously unlock tremendous demand from our huge market of 1.4 billion people. More development in China is a great opportunity for the world. We are ready to continue to share opportunities with other countries to achieve common development.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
Auckland is known as the “City of Sails.” We Chinese say, “In a boat race, those who row the hardest win.” Going forward, let us row together, and set sail towards a brighter future of China-New Zealand friendship and cooperation!
Thank you!"
"Keynote Speech by H.E. Xi Jinping
President of the People’s Republic of China
At the Opening Ceremony of the 10th Ministerial Conference
Of the China-Arab States Cooperation Forum
Beijing, May 30, 2024
Your Majesty King Hamad bin Isa Al-Khalifa,
Your Excellency President Abdul Fatah Al-Sisi,
Your Excellency President Kais Saied,
Your Highness President Mohamed Bin Zayed Al-Nahyan,
Your Excellency Secretary General Ahmed Aboul Gheit of the League of Arab States,
Heads of Delegations,
Distinguished Guests,
Friends,
It gives me great pleasure to attend the opening ceremony of the Ministerial Conference of the China-Arab States Cooperation Forum. I always find it heart-warming to meet Arab friends. The friendship between the Chinese and Arab peoples is deeply rooted in our friendly exchanges along the ancient Silk Road, in our joint struggles for national liberation, and in our win-win cooperation in promoting national development.
China-Arab relations have kept scaling new heights since the beginning of the new century. At the first China-Arab States Summit in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia in December 2022, my Arab colleagues and I agreed unanimously to build a China-Arab community with a shared future in the new era. China is satisfied with the progress we have made in delivering on the Summit’s outcomes. It will work with the Arab side to enhance the role of the Summit in providing strategic guidance for continued leapfrog growth of China-Arab relations. I am pleased to announce that we will host the second Summit in China in 2026, which will be another milestone in China-Arab relations.
Distinguished Guests,
Friends,
As changes unseen in a century unfold rapidly across the world, both China and Arab states strive to accomplish their historical missions of national rejuvenation and faster national development. Building a China-Arab community with a shared future is a strong statement of our common desire for a new era of China-Arab relations and a better future for the world.
China will work with the Arab side as good partners to make our relations a model for maintaining world peace and stability.
In this turbulent world, peaceful relations come from mutual respect, and lasting security is built on fairness and justice. We will, together with the Arab side, respect the purposes and principles of the U.N. Charter, the independent choice of every nation and the reality formed in history, and strive together for solutions to hotspot issues that uphold fairness and justice and sustain peace and security.
China will work with the Arab side in the spirit of equality and mutual benefit to make our relations a fine example of high-quality Belt and Road cooperation.
The Silk Road spirit is passed on from generation to generation. It keeps China-Arab relations abreast with the times to the benefit of the two peoples. In this interdependent world, we will further synergize development strategies with the Arab side. We will strengthen cooperation in key areas such as oil, gas, trade and infrastructure, step up fostering new growth areas such as artificial intelligence (AI), investment, financing and new energy, and embark together on an innovative and green path to prosperity.
China will work with the Arab side in the spirit of inclusiveness and mutual learning to make our relations a paradigm of harmonious coexistence between civilizations.
In a world of growing diversity, more dialogue means less confrontation, and more inclusiveness means less estrangement. Peace, truth, integrity and inclusiveness are the common pursuit of Chinese and Arab peoples. We are ready to work with the Arab side to promote people-to-people exchanges, champion the common values of humanity, and create a stellar example of mutual learning among civilizations in the new era.
China will work closely with the Arab side to make our relations a model for promoting good global governance.
The entire humanity shares one common future, which has become an inevitable trend. But deficits in governance, trust, peace and development are getting wider. This calls on us to improve global governance under the principle of “planning together, building together, and benefiting together.” We are ready to work with the Arab side to jointly champion an equal and orderly multipolar world and a universally beneficial and inclusive economic globalization, and set a model of South-South cooperation on global governance.
Distinguished Guests,
Friends,
At the first China-Arab States Summit, I put forward “eight major cooperation initiatives” for our practical cooperation. Since then, the Belt and Road cooperation documents we signed have expanded to cover a full range of areas thanks to our joint efforts over the past one year and more. New progress has been made in scientific R&D and technology transfer. Trade and energy cooperation have scaled new heights. Small and beautiful livelihood projects are advancing in parallel with signature flagship projects. Cooperation in areas such as food security, green innovation and health is deepening and getting more substantial. Platforms for people-to-people exchanges and cooperation are functioning well. Early harvests have been achieved in all the “eight major cooperation initiatives.” Moving forward, China is ready to work with the Arab side on that basis to put in place the following “five cooperation frameworks” to step up the building of a China-Arab community with a shared future.
The first is a more dynamic framework for innovation.
China will build with the Arab side ten joint laboratories in such areas as life and health, AI, green and low-carbon development, modern agriculture, and space and information technology. We will enhance cooperation on AI to make it empower the real economy and to promote a broad-based global governance system on AI. We also stand ready to build with the Arab side a joint space debris observation center and a Beidou application, cooperation and development center, and step up cooperation in manned space mission and passenger aircraft.
The second is an expanded framework for investment and finance cooperation.
We are ready to establish with the Arab side an industry and investment cooperation forum, continue to expand the China-Arab states interbank association, and implement at a faster pace the cooperation projects that are financed by the special loans in support of industrialization in the Middle East as well as by the credit line for China-Arab financial cooperation. China supports closer cooperation between financial institutions from the two sides, welcomes Arab states to issue panda bonds in China, and welcomes Arab banks to join the Cross-border Interbank Payment System. China is also ready to deepen exchanges and cooperation on central bank digital currency with the Arab side.
The third is a more multifaceted framework for energy cooperation.
China will further enhance strategic cooperation with the Arab side on oil and gas, and integrate supply security with market security. China is ready to work with the Arab side on new energy technology R&D and equipment production. We will support Chinese energy companies and financial institutions in participating in renewable energy projects in Arab states with total installed capacity of over 3 million kilowatts.
The fourth is a more balanced framework for mutually beneficial economic and trade ties.
China will continue to implement vigorously the development cooperation projects with a total worth of RMB3 billion yuan. It stands ready to accelerate the negotiations on bilateral and regional free trade agreements and advance the dialogue mechanism for e-commerce cooperation. It welcomes active participation of the Arab side in the China International Import Expo, and is willing to expand import of non-energy products from the Arab side, especially agricultural products.
The fifth is a broader framework for people-to-people exchanges.
China is ready to establish with the Arab side the China-Arab Center of Global Civilization Initiative, expand the size and influence of the China-Arab Research Center on Reform and Development, accelerate the establishment of such platforms as the think tank alliance, the youth development forum, the university alliance, and the research center on cultural and tourism cooperation. China will invite 200 leaders of Arab political parties to visit China every year. We plan to work with the Arab side to achieve the goal of 10 million two-way visits of tourists in the next five years.
Distinguished Guests,
Friends,
The Middle East is a land bestowed with broad prospects for development, but the war is still raging on it. Since last October, the Palestinian-Israeli conflict has escalated drastically, throwing the people into tremendous sufferings. War should not continue indefinitely. Justice should not be absent forever. Commitment to the two-State solution should not be wavered at will. China firmly supports the establishment of an independent State of Palestine that enjoys full sovereignty based on the 1967 borders and with East Jerusalem as its capital. It supports Palestine’s full membership in the U.N., and supports a more broad-based, authoritative and effective international peace conference. On top of the previous RMB100 million yuan of emergency humanitarian assistance, China will provide an additional RMB500 million yuan of assistance to help ease the humanitarian crisis in Gaza and support post-conflict reconstruction. We will donate U.S.$3 million to the U.N. Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East in support of its emergency humanitarian assistance to Gaza.
As an Arab saying goes, friends are the sunshine in life. We will continue to work with our Arab friends to carry forward the spirit of China-Arab friendship, build together a better future, and make the road sunny toward a China-Arab community with a shared future!
Thank you!"
"May 9, 2024
Your Excellency Prime Minister Viktor Orbán,
Friends from the Media,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
I am delighted to pay a state visit to Hungary at the kind invitation of President Tamás Sulyok and Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. I wish to thank President Sulyok, Prime Minister Orbán, and the Hungarian government for the thoughtful arrangements and warm hospitality. I wish to take this opportunity to convey through the media the cordial greetings and best wishes of the Chinese people to the Hungarian people.
This year marks the 75th anniversary of the diplomatic relations between China and Hungary. Over the past 75 years, the two sides have always followed the principles of mutual respect, equality, mutual benefit and win-win to ensure that bilateral relations keep moving in the right direction. The relationship is now at its best in history. I just concluded friendly and productive talks with Prime Minister Orbán. We had an in-depth exchange of views and reached extensive consensus on the development of China-Hungary relations in the new era and on issues of mutual interest. We witnessed the exchange of important bilateral cooperation documents. I have full confidence in the future of our bilateral relations.
Prime Minister Orbán and I both agree that China and Hungary have always been good friends that trust and support each other as well as good partners that seek win-win cooperation over the years. We should further elevate our relations and enrich our cooperation. We have decided to issue a joint statement to announce the establishment of an all-weather comprehensive strategic partnership for the new era between China and Hungary. From this new starting point, we will do what we can to enable our bilateral relations and practical cooperation to embark on a golden voyage toward greater goals so as to inject strong impetus into the development and prosperity of both countries.
We both believe that profound political mutual trust has laid a solid foundation for China-Hungary relations. Both sides will maintain the momentum of close high-level interactions. We will strengthen dialogue and exchanges between our governments, legislatures and political parties, share governance experience, and firmly support each other’s core interests. China highly appreciates Hungary’s firm commitment to the one-China principle, and will continue to firmly support Hungary in pursuing a development path suited to its national conditions.
We both agree that the Belt and Road Initiative and Hungary’s Eastern Opening strategy are highly compatible. We will connect our development strategies more closely, deepen economic, trade, investment, and financial cooperation, and advance the Budapest-Belgrade railway and other key projects. We will expand cooperation in emerging industries and foster new quality productive forces to empower and facilitate economic and social development of the two countries.
We both believe that there is a solid foundation for China-Hungary traditional friendship. We will continue to support the teaching of each other’s language, make good use of our cultural centers, strengthen sports, media and subnational exchanges and cooperation, and promote mutual learning and understanding between different cultures and peoples. The two sides will further improve their respective exit-entry policies and enhance direct flight linkages to create more favorable conditions for more people-to-people exchanges.
We both believe that cooperation between China and Central and Eastern European Countries (China-CEEC Cooperation) conforms with the principles of extensive consultation and joint contribution for shared benefit, and that it is a fine example of cross-regional cooperation. China and Hungary will work together to expand the scope, broaden the coverage and raise the levels of the China-CEEC Cooperation so as to deliver greater benefits to the peoples of relevant countries. China values its comprehensive strategic partnership with the European Union (EU), and views Europe as an important pole in a multipolar world and a key partner in China’s bid to advance Chinese modernization. China supports Hungary in playing a bigger role in the EU and promoting greater progress in China-EU relations.
We both agree that China and Hungary share similar views and positions on international and regional situations. We will strengthen communication and coordination in the multilateral field, and advocate vigorously for an equal and orderly multipolar world and a universally beneficial and inclusive economic globalization. We will resolutely uphold international fairness and justice, and endeavor to build a community with a shared future for mankind.
The Communist Party of China is leading the Chinese people in a concerted effort to build China into a great modern socialist country in all respects and advance the great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation on all fronts through the Chinese path to modernization. Chinese modernization means tremendous opportunities to the world. China wishes to enjoy common development and prosperity with Hungary. I believe with joint efforts from both sides, China and Hungary will embrace a brighter future.
Thank you."
"May 8, 2024
I am delighted to pay a state visit to the beautiful country of Hungary at the gracious invitation of President Tamás Sulyok and Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. On behalf of the government and people of China, I wish to extend heartfelt greetings and best wishes to the Hungarian government and people.
Hungary is known for its time-honored history and profound cultural heritage. The Hungarian people are industrious, intelligent, open, inclusive, pioneering and creative. In recent years, the government and people of Hungary have been forging ahead with determination, making impressive progress in economic and social development. As a good friend and a comprehensive strategic partner, we in China, both the government and people, heartily rejoice over your achievements.
China and Hungary are good friends and good partners of mutual trust. In 1949, Hungary was one of the first countries to recognize and establish diplomatic relations with the People’s Republic of China. In 2004, we decided to forge a friendly and cooperative partnership. In 2017, the bilateral relationship was elevated to a comprehensive strategic partnership, upgrading and speeding up the mutually beneficial cooperation and strengthening the popular support for traditional China-Hungary friendship. In recent years, our two sides have seen frequent high-level exchanges, deepening mutual trust, fruitful outcomes in Belt and Road cooperation, vibrant people-to-people and cultural exchanges, and close coordination and collaboration in international and regional affairs. Together, we have set a fine example of building a new type of international relations featuring mutual respect, fairness, justice and win-win cooperation.
This year marks the 75th anniversary of our diplomatic ties, bringing an important opportunity for the growth of bilateral relations. I look forward to meeting with President Tamás Sulyok, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán and other Hungarian leaders. We will jointly outline a new blueprint for cooperation and development, with a view to steering the China-Hungary relationship forward in big strides and taking it to a higher level. I believe that no matter how the international landscape evolves, China and Hungary will always view and approach the bilateral relationship from a broad perspective and a long-term view. Through vigorous and determined endeavors, we will work together toward the goal of building a community with a shared future for mankind, and make our due contribution to world peace, stability, development and prosperity. I am confident that, with the two sides’ concerted efforts, this visit will be a complete success and usher in an even brighter future of the China-Hungary relationship."
"Xi Jinping
President of the People’s Republic of China
In May when the fragrance of flowers and grass on the Great Hungarian Plain fills the air, I will pay a state visit to Hungary at the invitation of President Tamás Sulyok and Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. This will be my second time to come to this land of beauty and abundance in a span of 15 years.
Over the past 15 years, I have met with visiting Hungarian leaders on many occasions. We have forged a deep friendship. I very much look forward to returning to your country to renew our friendship and work with my friends on a new blueprint for China-Hungary relations and cooperation in the new era.
Hungary is home to magnificent natural landscapes and talented people and is known for its profound historical and cultural heritage. The epic works of the patriotic poet Sándor Petőfi and the powerful melodies of the great virtuoso pianist Franz Liszt impressed the world. The Hungarian people, being industrious, intelligent, open, inclusive, pioneering and creative, have contributed to human civilization with inventions of the modern ballpoint pen, holography, and the Rubik’s Cube, to name just a few.
Although our two countries are geographically far apart, our two peoples have been friends for centuries. China and Hungary stood together in solidarity and looked out for each other in trying times of the global financial crisis and the COVID-19 pandemic, leaving behind many touching stories of friendship. Our long-standing friendship is as mellow and rich as Tokaji wine.
This year marks the 75th anniversary of China-Hungary diplomatic relations. The bilateral relationship has since been developing and growing steadily and soundly with tangible results achieved in all fields. We respect and treat each other as equals, and pursue mutually beneficial cooperation. We see each other as a priority partner of cooperation. We have gone through hardships together and defied power politics together amid volatile international situations. We have found our respective path for sovereign states to independently conduct friendly exchanges with other countries.
Over the past 75 years, China and Hungary have remained good friends and treated each other with sincerity. We have kept our original aspiration for friendship in mind since the establishment of diplomatic ties. We have respected and supported the development path of our own choice respectively. We have shown understanding and provided support to each other on issues that bear on our respective core interests and are of major concern to us. We have taken delight in each other’s progress in national development and revitalization. We have developed a high degree of political mutual trust. Our bilateral relationship is at its best in history, and has embarked on a golden voyage.
Over the past 75 years, China and Hungary have remained good partners for win-win cooperation. Focusing on high-quality Belt and Road cooperation, our two countries are strengthening synergy in development strategies and deepening results-oriented cooperation in such areas as investment, infrastructure, finance, new energy, and telecommunication technology. Our cooperation is injecting new impetus into global economic recovery. Today Hungary is China’s top investment destination as well as its important trading partner in Central and Eastern Europe. Our bilateral cooperation is strong, fruitful, and dynamic.
Over the past 75 years, China and Hungary have remained good friends and learned from each other. The Hungarian Cultural Center in Beijing has been operating for years with success. The China Cultural Center in Budapest will soon be officially inaugurated. Hungarian language courses are on the curriculum of many Chinese universities. The Confucius Institutes and Confucius Classrooms are gaining popularity and participation in Hungary. The Hungarian-Chinese bilingual school in Budapest has fostered a great number of Hungarians who are carrying forward our friendship. Exchanges and mutual visits at the subnational level are growing. Direct passenger flights reach double-digit per week. Measures to facilitate two-way travels are in place and delivering substantial results. The more exchanges between our peoples, the stronger the foundations of our friendship will be.
Currently, China and Hungary both stand at an important stage of development. China is pursuing high-quality development and promoting high-standard opening up, and is working to build itself into a great modern socialist country in all respects and advancing the great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation on all fronts through the Chinese path to modernization.
Hungary on its part is making every effort for greater development. During my upcoming visit, I hope to work together with Hungarian leaders to renew China-Hungary traditional friendship, deepen mutually beneficial cooperation, and take the China-Hungary comprehensive strategic partnership to new heights.
—Our two countries need to carry forward our tradition of friendship and strengthen the political foundations of bilateral relationship.
Stronger political mutual trust is the cornerstone of rapid and steady development of China-Hungary relations. China is willing to build on the 75 years of our diplomatic relations and work with Hungary to make top-level designs for the relationship from a strategic and long-term perspective, sustain the strong momentum of high-level interactions, and support regular exchanges and policy communication between our governments, legislatures and political parties. We should continue to firmly support each other on issues that involve our respective core interests. This will provide a strong political guarantee for the high-standard development of China-Hungary relations.
—Our two countries need to forge greater synergy in development strategies and strive for new highlights in practical cooperation.
We will work with Hungary to forge greater synergy between the Belt and Road Initiative and Hungary’s Eastern Opening strategy, and accelerate the construction of the Budapest-Belgrade railway link and other significant cooperation projects. China will stay committed to promoting high-standard opening up. We will strengthen cooperation with Hungary in clean energy, artificial intelligence, digital economy, green development, and other emerging areas, foster new quality productive forces, and serve our respective high-quality development.
—Our two countries need to expand cultural and people-to-people exchanges and cement public support for bilateral relations.
People-to-people connectivity is an endless source of strength for China-Hungary relations. China is willing to expand with Hungary exchanges and cooperation in education, culture, tourism, sport, youth, the media and at the subnational level, support the teaching of each other’s languages, make full use of cultural centers, and encourage more communication and interaction between peoples and between institutions. We will continue to work with Hungary to upgrade mutual visa facilitation, expand direct flights, and facilitate people-to-people exchanges.
—Our two countries need to lead regional cooperation and keep to the right direction of China-Europe relations.
The cooperation between China and Central and Eastern European countries conforms with the trends of the times and development, and serves the common interests of all relevant countries. It is also an important complement to the overall China-Europe relationship. Recently, there are signs of stability for the better in China-Europe relations. As comprehensive strategic partners, China and Europe have a broad range of shared interests. Their relationship is more cooperative than competitive and features more consensus than differences. The two sides have the responsibility to provide together more stability for the world and more impetus for global development. We are ready to work with Hungary to deepen and substantiate China’s cooperation with Central and Eastern European countries and to ensure steady and sustained growth of China-Europe relations.
—Our two countries need to enhance communication on international affairs and join hands to address global challenges.
At present, transformation not seen in a century is accelerating across the world and global challenges keep emerging. The international community must make a response together. China and Hungary have similar views and positions on international and regional situations. It is important that we stay committed to solidarity and collaboration, champion humanity’s common values of peace, development, fairness, justice, democracy and freedom, and practice true multilateralism. We should advocate an equal and orderly multipolar world and a universally beneficial and inclusive economic globalization, endeavor continuously to build a community with a shared future for mankind, and inject more positive energy into safeguarding world peace and promoting common development.
As an old Chinese saying goes, “No mountain and ocean can distance people with shared aspirations.” Our Hungarian friends often say, “A good friend is more precious than gold.” On the new journey of the new era, China looks forward to working closely with our Hungarian friends to write new stories of friendship, open a new chapter of cooperation, and strive for a better future for the two peoples."
"May 7, 2024
It gives me great pleasure to pay a state visit to the Republic of Serbia at the warm invitation of President Aleksandar Vučić. On behalf of the Chinese government and people, I would like to extend heartfelt greetings and best wishes to the friendly government and people of Serbia.
China and Serbia enjoy profound traditional friendship. Our bilateral relationship has stood the test of changing international environment and become a fine example of state-to-state relations. Since the establishment of the comprehensive strategic partnership in 2016, the bilateral relationship has realized leapfrog development, and achieved historic results. The two countries are bound by rock-solid political mutual trust, and have seen fruitful results in high quality Belt and Road cooperation. We have agreed on comprehensive mutual visa exemption, opened direct flights, and signed a free trade agreement. People-to-people exchanges are becoming more robust. Our ironclad friendship has taken deeper roots in the heart of the two peoples. China and Serbia have rendered each other firm support on issues concerning our respective core interests and major concerns. We have jointly upheld international fairness and justice, and contributed our share to promoting world peace and development. Cooperation between the two countries is rooted in the principle of equality and mutual benefits. It serves the fundamental and long-term interests of both countries, provides strong momentum for our respective development and rejuvenation, brings benefits to the two peoples, and contributes to the building of a community with a shared future for mankind.
Standing at a new historical starting point, China will work with Serbia to jointly stay committed to the original aspiration and forge ahead together to open up a new vista in China-Serbia cooperation with stronger momentum, greater scope, and higher quality. I look forward to taking this visit as an opportunity to have in-depth exchange of views with President Vučić on the bilateral relationship and other issues of mutual interest, renew friendship, plan for cooperation, explore development, and draw up a new blueprint for the development of bilateral relations. I am confident that this visit will be a fruitful one and will open up a new chapter in China-Serbia relations."
"Xi Jinping
President of the People’s Republic of China
When summer comes, all beings flourish. This is what makes summer the season of hope. I will pay a state visit to the Republic of Serbia at the invitation of President Aleksandar Vučić. This will be my second visit to your country, a land of beauty and legends, as President of the People’s Republic of China. The sweet scenes that prevailed during my last visit eight years ago remain very much alive in my mind. The close cooperation between our two countries over the past eight years has delivered fruitful outcomes.
I look forward to meeting with President Aleksandar Vučić and other Serbian leaders and friends to renew our friendship, explore ways of cooperation, and make the ironclad friendship between China and Serbia more dynamic.
There has always been an affinity between Chinese and Serbian peoples despite the long distance between us. During the bitter Anti-Fascist War and our respective nation-building in the last century, the Chinese and Serbian peoples forged a strong friendship that extends through time and space. Amid the ongoing transformations unseen in a century in the world, our mutual support remains as strong as ever, our cooperation is closer, and our exchanges and mutual learning more substantive.
Whatever changes in the international landscape, China and Serbia remain true friends and good partners. Our ironclad friendship is ever-growing, setting a model for state-to-state and people-to-people interactions.
Our two countries have always respected and trusted each other.
President Vučić and I have developed a good working relationship through our meetings, phone calls, and exchanges of letters. Our two countries have also maintained frequent exchanges at all levels and in all areas. We fully appreciate and respect the development paths that our respective nation has chosen. We uphold fairness and justice, firmly support each other on issues that bear on our respective core interests and are of major concern to us. We have kept close and smooth coordination and collaboration at the bilateral and multilateral levels. We have built an ever stronger comprehensive strategic partnership that is delivering tangible outcomes.
Our two countries have stayed committed to mutual benefit.
Serbia is China’s first free trade partner in Central and Eastern Europe. Last year, China was Serbia’s largest source of foreign investment and its second largest trading partner. Our thriving cooperation in trade and economic relations, industrial chain, and infrastructure development lends a great boost to our respective process of modernization. In 2016, I visited the Smederevo steel plant of HBIS Serbia, which has become one of the three biggest export companies in Serbia. Serbian honey, red wine, beef, lamb and other agricultural products are very popular among Chinese consumers.
Our two countries have always helped each other.
Following the COVID-19 outbreak, I spoke with President Vučić twice on the phone and we agreed on a collaborative response to the pandemic. China provided assistance, prioritized the provision of multiple shipments of protective medical supplies, and sent medical experts to Serbia. On its part, Serbia provided full support to China in implementing its “Spring Sprout” program to vaccinate Chinese citizens living and working in Serbia. Nongovernmental organizations in Serbia voluntarily donated masks and other supplies to the Chinese people. Our mutual support in challenging times testifies to our invaluable brotherly friendship.
Our two countries have always been learning from each other.
We are both committed to delivering a better life for our peoples and making our countries strong and prosperous. We have implemented many programs to share experience in governance, and have enhanced exchanges between our political parties. Our peoples have warm feelings toward each other, as evidenced by the robust cultural, sports, tourism and people-to-people exchanges. Nikola Jokić, the Serbian basketball superstar, personally cheered on players of Chinese rural basketball games. China and Serbia have agreed on a mutual visa-free arrangement for ordinary passport holders, which facilitates people-to-people exchanges and bilateral cooperation.
A Chinese axiom goes, “Friends are those who are like-minded.” And Serbians would say, “Friends are the greatest asset in life.”
The long-lasting friendship and win-win cooperation between China and Serbia makes it clear to us that a stronger bilateral relationship conforms with the trend of history and serves the best interests of our two peoples. It also helps promote our common progress. On the new journey of the new era, the China-Serbia comprehensive strategic partnership has more potential for further growth. During my upcoming visit,
I will work with my Serbian friends to bring out the best in our ironclad friendship and take real efforts to deliver more benefits to our two peoples, advance world peace and development, and promote the building of a community with a shared future for mankind.
We should always be good friends and treat each other with sincerity.
We will deepen and expand our comprehensive strategic partnership. We will continue to show each other understanding, trust, support and assistance. We will remain steadfast in supporting each other on issues that bear on our respective core interests and are of major concern to us. China respects and supports the development path that the Serbian people have chosen of their own will. We support Serbia’s efforts to uphold its sovereignty and territorial integrity, and oppose any attempt by any forces to interfere in Serbia’s internal affairs.
We should always be good partners for win-win cooperation.
China is striving for its modernization in all respects through high-quality development, and moving faster to develop new quality productive forces. Serbia has achieved remarkable economic and social development in recent years. Our two countries should further unleash the potential of our mutually beneficial cooperation. We should deliver on the midterm action plan for Belt and Road cooperation, and build more flagship projects. We should expand cooperation in technological innovation, advanced manufacturing, green energy, digital economy, artificial intelligence and other emerging areas. We should share development opportunities and create a better future together.
We should always play an exemplary role in promoting fairness and justice.
As ironclad friends and defenders for world peace, China and Serbia hold similar positions on many major international and regional issues. Facing a fluid and turbulent world, we should step up coordination and cooperation in the United Nations and other international organizations, and advocate an equal and orderly multipolar world and a universally beneficial and inclusive economic globalization. We should practice true multilateralism, and endeavor to maintain world peace and stability and safeguard international fairness and justice.
We should always strengthen the heart-to-heart connection between our two peoples.
Our ironclad friendship has withstood the test of blood and fire, and shines even brighter in the new era. We should promote multi-dimensional people-to-people and cultural exchanges, and diversify subnational cooperation. We should make good use of the combined effect of “mutual visa exemption plus direct flights” as well as our respective cultural centers to promote cooperation in education, sports, culture and tourism. We should create more opportunities for our youth so that the China-Serbia friendship will be carried forward from generation to generation.
Twenty-five years ago today, NATO flagrantly bombed the Chinese embassy in Yugoslavia, killing three Chinese journalists—Ms. Shao Yunhuan, Mr. Xu Xinghu and his wife Zhu Ying. This we should never forget. The Chinese people cherish peace, but we will never allow such tragic history to repeat itself. The China-Serbia friendship, forged with the blood of our compatriots, will stay in the shared memory of the Chinese and Serbian peoples, and will inspire us to march forward with big strides.
While looking back at the journey our two countries have traveled together, we also look forward to the promising future we aspire to embrace. We have now come to a new historic milestone. We on the Chinese side are ready to work hand in hand with our Serbian friends to make our shared aspiration and common progress a reality. Together we will write a new chapter in the development and rejuvenation of our nations. Together we will build a China-Serbia community with a shared future in the new era. Flowers in spring will turn into fruits in autumn. The tree of China-Serbia friendship will grow tall and sturdy and bear more fruits for our two peoples. This is what we expect and what we hope to witness together."
"Your Excellency President Emmanuel Macron and Mrs. Brigitte Macron,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Dear Friends,
It is such a pleasure to once again visit the beautiful French Republic. On behalf of my wife and the Chinese delegation, I would like to express my heartfelt appreciation to you, Mr. President, Mrs. Macron and the French side for your gracious hospitality.
France is a country of fascination. It is home to Montesquieu, Voltaire, Jean-Jacques Rousseau, Victor Hugo and many other thinkers and literary giants who have made far-reaching impact on human progress. The initiators of many famous international sporting events, such as the modern Olympics, the FIFA World Cup, and the European Championship, are also French. The Paris 2024 Summer Olympic Games will open in about two months. I believe it will be nothing short of spectacular.
I often say that China and France are special friends, and the China-France relationship is a special relationship among major countries in the world.
It is special in that both countries are committed to the spirit of independence. My visit coincides with the 60th anniversary of the establishment of China-France diplomatic relations. Six decades ago, General Charles de Gaulle made the decision to establish diplomatic relations with New China at the ambassadorial level, which was indeed not easy against the backdrop of the Cold War. Six decades on, despite the shifting dynamics on the international landscape, generations of Chinese and French leaders have viewed and approached this relationship from a strategic and long-term perspective. The French president was the first Western head of state to visit New China, and France was the first Western country that hosted the official visit by a leader of New China. These highlights in China-France interactions are all attributed to our countries’ commitment to the spirit of independence, which should be cherished and carried forward.
The China-France relationship is special in that we appreciate each other. Representing Eastern and Western civilizations, China and France have a fine tradition of mutual appreciation and mutual attraction. Five years ago, President Macron gave me a copy of the French version of
Confucius, or the Science of Princes
first published in 1688, and noted how the thinking of Confucius profoundly influenced people like Voltaire and inspired the French Enlightenment. I would say that the Work-Study Movement of Chinese students in France early last century helped cultivate a contingent of talent for the revolution, development and reform in China afterwards. This year is designated as the China-France Year of Culture and Tourism. I am sure that the two countries can use it as an opportunity to draw wisdom and nourishment from each other’s culture.
The China-France relationship is special in that we both have a strong sense of responsibility. History has proved time and again that, China and France can work together for the betterment of the world. The world today is experiencing changes and turbulence. The Ukraine crisis and Palestinian-Israeli conflict continue unabated. Economic recovery lacks momentum. Global challenges such as climate change are becoming tougher to tackle. Both being permanent members of the U.N. Security Council, China and France are duty-bound to shoulder greater responsibilities. This afternoon, President Macron and I had an in-depth exchange of views on China’s relations with France and Europe and on international developments. We agreed to stay true to our countries’ original aspiration when forging the diplomatic relations six decades ago, deepen the high-level mutual trust and cooperation, and strengthen communication and coordination on major international issues, to jointly inject hope into a confused world and explore the way forward for human progress.
As Montaigne aptly observed, “Friendship is nourished by communication.” More interactions and more exchanges will build more consensus. I am sure that with a fine tradition from the past, a good foundation of the present, and a blueprint for the future, the China-France relationship will embrace a spring of bloom and boom.
Now may I propose a toast:
To the prosperity of the French Republic and happiness of its people;
To the everlasting friendship between our countries and peoples; and
To the health of President and Mrs. Macron and all friends present.
Cheers!"
"Remarks by H.E. Xi Jinping
President of the People’s Republic of China
At the Closing Ceremony of
The Sixth Meeting of the China-France Business Council
Paris, May 6, 2024
Your Excellency President Emmanuel Macron,
Representatives of the Chinese and French Business Communities,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
It gives me great pleasure to attend the China-France Business Council meeting with President Macron again in a little over a year and to meet friends, old and new, of the business communities of the two countries. It has been five years since I last visited Paris. I wish to start by extending my warm greetings to you all. I wish the Council’s Sixth Meeting a full success.
This year marks the 60th anniversary of China-France diplomatic relations. Sixty years complete one cycle in the traditional Chinese calender, bridging the past and the future.
For 60 years, China and France have remained devoted friends of each other.
We both have always committed to the principles of independence, mutual understanding, strategic vision, and win-win cooperation which underpinned the establishment of our diplomatic relations. Together, we have traversed an extraordinary journey, and forged a close and lasting comprehensive strategic partnership. The China-France relationship has always been a pacesetter for the relations between China and Western countries. It shows how countries with different cultures, systems and development levels can help each other succeed and make progress together. China-France friendship is in the best interest of the Chinese and French peoples as well as the interest of the whole world.
For 60 years, China and France have remained win-win partners of each other.
Bilateral trade and investment have grown tremendously from negligible levels. Our trade has expanded by nearly 800 times since the establishment of diplomatic relations, reaching US$78.9 billion. Cumulative two-way investment has exceeded US$26 billion. More than 2,000 French companies have woven themselves into the fabric of the Chinese market. China is the largest trading partner of France outside the EU, and France is a major EU trading partner of China. Flagship projects such as the Daya Bay Nuclear Power Plant and Airbus A320 Family assembly facilities in Tianjin stand as vivid examples of our mutually beneficial cooperation. Our two countries are also engaged in enthusiastic discussions on expanding cooperation in emerging fields such as green and low-carbon development, digital economy and cross-border e-commerce. Thanks to 60 years of growth, our economies are now closely intertwined and highly symbiotic.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
Both China and France are parts of the Eurasian continent, located at its east and west ends respectively. China is a typical Eastern civilization, and France showcases the Western. Our two countries do not have geopolitical conflicts, and we do not have clashes of fundamental interests. What we do have in common is we both think independently, both are fascinated by our splendid cultures, and we are engaged in result-oriented cooperation based on many shared interests. Our experiences in the past and at present both show that there is no reason for failures in bringing out the best in China-France relations. We have now reached a new crossroads in the development of mankind and face global changes unseen in a century. Against this backdrop, China is ready to enhance all-round exchanges and cooperation with France, bring the China-France relationship to a new stage and make it even more productive.
—Looking to the future, we will work with France to enrich the economic and trade dimensions of the China-France comprehensive strategic partnership.
As one of the earliest participants in China’s reform and opening up, France has contributed to China’s modernization drive and benefited from it. Deeper friendship calls for frequent exchanges and closer cooperation. We always view France as a priority and trustworthy partner of cooperation. We are committed to expanding our business relations in both width and depth by opening up new areas, creating new models and fostering new growth areas. China will continue to make full use of the “French farm to Chinese dining table” whole-chain rapid coordination mechanism, and bring more cheese, ham, wine and other quality agricultural products from France to the dining tables of Chinese families. China has decided to extend visa exemption entry for citizens from 12 countries including France on short-term visits to China until the end of 2025, a step that will further boost people-to-people exchanges.
—Looking to the future, we will work with France to deepen China-Europe mutually beneficial cooperation.
China and Europe are two major forces in building a multipolar world, two big markets that promote globalization, and two great civilizations that advocate cultural diversity. China-Europe relations are crucial for peace, stability and prosperity of the world. The two sides should always define China-Europe relations as a comprehensive strategic partnership, continue to enhance political mutual trust, remove various distractions, and jointly oppose attempts to turn business relations into political, ideological or security issues. We hope that Europe will work together with us to increase understanding through dialogue, resolve differences through cooperation, and defuse risks with enhanced mutual trust. We should turn China and Europe into each other’s key partners for business cooperation, priority partners for cooperation in science and technology, and trustworthy partners for cooperation in industrial and supply chains. China will, on its own initiative, further open up the service sector including telecommunications and medical services, and open its market wider to create more opportunities for companies of France, Europe and beyond.
—Looking to the future, we are ready to join hands with France to tackle global challenges.
The world today is facing growing peace deficit, development deficit, security deficit and governance deficit. Both China and France are independent major countries and permanent members of the U.N. Security Council. This means our two countries need to shoulder our responsibilities and missions to enhance stability in China-France relations to address uncertainties of the world. We need to step up coordination in the U.N. and provide more leadership and support for global governance so as to build an equal and orderly multipolar world. China and France need to practice true multilateralism, further promote all-round WTO reform, uphold the authority and performance of the multilateral trading regime with the WTO at its core, keep the global economy open, and promote a universally beneficial and inclusive economic globalization. China and France need to urge the international community to pool strengths, stand by the goals and principles of the U.N. Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Paris Agreement, actively address climate change, advance the global process of biological diversity protection, and jointly protect the Earth, our common home.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
Reform and opening up, a truly remarkable endeavor, is the defining feature of China today. China is pursuing high-standard opening up to advance in-depth reform and high-quality development. We are upgrading traditional industries, fostering emerging industries, laying the groundwork for future industries, and moving faster to promote new quality productive forces. We are considering and taking major steps to further deepen reform across the board, steadily expand institutional opening up, further expand market access, and shorten the negative list for foreign investment. All this will create an even bigger market and present more opportunities for win-win cooperation for France and other countries. We welcome French entrepreneurs present today to play an active part in the Chinese modernization process and benefit from China’s development opportunities.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
In more than two months, the Paris 2024 Olympic Games will open by the beautiful Seine River. The Olympic Games is a symbol of solidarity, friendship and mutual learning between civilizations. Let us stay committed to the goal set by our two countries when our diplomatic ties were forged, boost our traditional friendship, and practice the Olympic motto of “Faster, Higher, Stronger—Together.” Let us join hands to open up a new era of China-France cooperation and write a new chapter in building a community with a shared future for mankind.
Thank you!"
"Paris, May 6, 2024
Mr. President,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
It gives me great pleasure to pay another state visit to France at the invitation of President Macron as the two countries mark 60 years of diplomatic relations.
I had a productive meeting with President Macron just now. We agree that the China-France relationship has a precious history, unique values and an important mission. The two sides should carry forward the baton of history, champion the spirit that guided the establishment of diplomatic ties and enrich it with the features of the new era, and embark on a new journey for the next 60 years of China-France relations.
We have agreed on the following.
First, consolidating the strategic stability of bilateral relations.
I welcome President Macron for another visit to China. The two sides have reiterated that they will respect each other’s core interests, and will timely conduct policy communication and coordination through multi-level, multi-dimensional channels.
Second, exploring the great potential for mutually beneficial cooperation.
The two sides will strive for upward balance in bilateral trade. They will expand cooperation in agri-food, finance and other sections, and advance joint R&D and innovation in areas including aviation, aerospace and civil nuclear energy. They will connect their development strategies more closely, and expand cooperation in emerging areas such as green energy, smart manufacturing, bio-medicine, artificial intelligence and third-party markets. China has fully opened up its manufacturing sector, and will move faster to expand market access in the service sector such as telecommunication and medical services. The two sides encourage more two-way investment, and are committed to providing a sound business environment for companies from the other side. During this visit, the two sides signed 18 cooperation agreements between government agencies, covering such areas as aviation, agriculture, people-to-people exchange, green development and SME cooperation.
Third, accelerating people-to-people exchanges.
The two sides will take the China-France Year of Culture and Tourism as an opportunity to promote educational, sports, film and TV, youth, and subnational cooperation. China supports France in hosting a great Paris 2024 Olympic Games. China welcomes more visitors from France. We have decided to extend the short-stay visa-exemption policy for citizens of 12 countries including France to the end of 2025. We support opening direct flights between Shanghai and Marseilles. China and France enjoy historical links in education. One hundred and fifty years ago, China opened its Fujian Naval Academy with the help of personages from France. Early last century, France hosted many young Chinese during the work-study movement. We welcome the participation of France as the country of honor in this year’s China Annual Conference and Expo for International Education. In the next three years, we want to bring the total number of French students in China to more than 10,000, and double the number of young Europeans on exchange programs to China.
Fourth, building greater consensus on global cooperation.
The two sides will deepen cooperation on climate change, biodiversity and other issues, and enhance dialogue in the global governance of AI, reform of the international financial system and other fields. China supports France in hosting the 2025 U.N. Ocean Conference, and welcomes partnerships between our national parks and nature reserves.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
The world is far from being tranquil. As a permanent member of the U.N. Security Council and a responsible major country, China is ready to work with France to advocate, on the occasion of the Paris Olympic Games, a cessation of hostilities around the world during the Games.
On the Palestinian-Israeli conflict.
This prolonged tragedy is a test for human conscience. The international community must act. We call on all parties to work for an immediate, comprehensive and sustainable ceasefire in Gaza. We support Palestine’s full membership in the U.N., and support restoring to Palestine its legitimate national rights and restarting the two-State solution, so as to achieve lasting peace in the Middle East.
On the Ukraine crisis.
China has stated its position on many occasions. China did not start the Ukraine crisis, nor is it a party to or a participant in it. Instead of being an onlooker, we have been playing an important role for peace. The special representative of the Chinese government on Eurasian affairs is on his third round of shuttle diplomacy. At the same time, China opposes attempts to use the Ukraine crisis to scapegoat or smear a third country or to stoke a new cold war. History has proven time and again that at the end of the day, conflicts can only be resolved through negotiation. We call on all parties to resume engagement and dialogue to build mutual trust. We support holding at a proper time an international peace conference that is recognized by both Russia and Ukraine and ensures the equal participation of all parties and fair discussions on all peace plans. We support a balanced, effective and sustainable security architecture in Europe.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
This year marks the 75th anniversary of the founding of the People’s Republic of China. Thanks to 75 years of extraordinary efforts, transformative changes have taken place in China and in the lives of the Chinese people. But one thing remains unchanged—our peace-loving and kind nature, our open-mindedness and inclusiveness, and our pursuit of fairness and justice. This is deeply rooted in the 5,000-year Chinese culture and in the soul of the Chinese people. China stands ready to develop friendly relations and cooperation with France and all other countries on the basis of mutual respect, move forward together in face of common challenges, and build together a better future.
Thank you."
"Xi Jinping
President of the People’s Republic of China
I am delighted to pay my third state visit to France at the invitation of President Emmanuel Macron.
France holds a special fascination for us Chinese. This country has produced a galaxy of philosophers, writers, and artists with global appeal who have inspired all humanity. Over 150 years ago, French nationals helped China found its Fujian Navy Yard and the Fujian Naval Academy. France was also the first country to welcome government-sponsored students from China. A century ago, a number of young Chinese traveled to France for further education. Some of these young patriots went on to make remarkable contribution to the founding and development of New China. France was also the first major western country to enter into formal diplomatic ties with New China.
The year 2024 is of special significance. I will visit France bringing with me three messages from China.
—China will work with France to carry forward the spirit that guided the establishment of their diplomatic ties, build on past achievements and open new vistas for China-France relations.
This year marks the 60th anniversary of China-France relations.
Six decades ago, General Charles de Gaulle, with a strategic vision based on the trend of the time, resolved to establish diplomatic relations with New China. It wasn’t easy to make this independent decision at the height of the Cold War, but it has proven to be right and foresighted. With the establishment of China-France relations, a bridge of communication between the East and West was built, and the international relations were able to evolve in the direction of dialogue and cooperation.
In these six decades, China-France relations have stayed abreast of the times. Our two countries took the lead in establishing a comprehensive strategic partnership and launching institutional strategic dialogue in China’s relations with Western countries. We spearheaded cooperation in aviation and nuclear energy and on third-party markets. We were among the first to mutually open cultural centers and start cultural year activities, providing guidance for mutual learning between civilizations. China-France cooperation contributed to the conclusion of the Paris Agreement on climate change and the Kunming-Montreal Global Biodiversity Framework, boosting strongly the implementation of the global climate agenda.
History is our best teacher. We live in a world that is far from being tranquil and is once again facing a multitude of risks. China is ready to work with France in the spirit that guided the establishment of our diplomatic ties to forge a stronger comprehensive strategic partnership between our two countries and make new contributions to stronger cooperation of the global community.
—China will open even wider to the world and deepen cooperation with France and other countries.
This year marks the 75th anniversary of the People’s Republic of China.
Through 75 years of perseverant hard work, the Chinese people have turned China from an impoverished country into the second largest economy in the world. Several hundred million people in rural areas were lifted out of poverty, a miracle in the history of humanity. The Chinese economy registered 5.2 percent growth in 2023, and is expected to grow by around 5 percent in 2024 with greater progress toward high-quality development. China will remain a source of global growth and create opportunities for all countries.
One thing that has made China’s development possible is our firm commitment to opening up. We welcome more quality French farm products and cosmetics to the Chinese market to meet the ever-growing needs of the Chinese people for a better life. We welcome investment by companies from France and other countries to China. To this end, we have fully opened up China’s manufacturing sector, and will move faster to expand market access to telecom, medical and other services. We also have a 15-day visa-exemption policy for visitors from many countries including France, and we have taken further measures to facilitate travel and payment by foreigners in China.
While opening up itself, China also encourages Chinese companies to go global. France is advancing re-industrialization based on green innovation, whereas China is accelerating the development of new quality productive forces. Our two countries can deepen cooperation on innovation and jointly promote green development. Some Chinese companies have set up battery plants in France. The Chinese government supports more Chinese companies in investing in France. And we hope that France will ensure that they operate in a fair and equitable business environment.
—China will strengthen communication and coordination with France to uphold world peace and stability.
This year marks the 70th anniversary of the Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence.
Seven decades ago, Chinese Premier Zhou Enlai put forth in full the five principles for the first time—“mutual respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity, mutual non-aggression, mutual non-interference in each other’s internal affairs, equality and mutual benefit, and peaceful coexistence.” Through 70 years, the Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence have been widely accepted and recognized by countries across the world. They have become an important norm governing contemporary international relations.
China has faithfully practiced the Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence. Over the past 70-plus years since its founding, New China never provoked a war or occupied an inch of foreign land. China is the only country around the world that includes in its Constitution the commitment to the path of peaceful development, and China is the only country among the major nuclear-weapon states that is committed to no-first-use of nuclear weapons.
I have proposed in recent years the Global Development Initiative, the Global Security Initiative, and the Global Civilization Initiative. As part of China’s efforts to help improve global governance and resolve tough question regarding human development, the three initiatives have won the support of more than 100 countries and international organizations.
China understands the repercussions of the Ukraine crisis on the people of Europe. China did not start the Ukraine crisis, nor is it a party to or a participant in it. Nonetheless, China has been playing a constructive role in striving for peaceful settlement of the crisis. I have made many appeals, among others, observing the purposes and principles of the U.N. Charter, respecting sovereignty and territorial integrity of all countries, and addressing the legitimate security concerns of all sides. I have stressed that nuclear weapons must not be used, and a nuclear war must not be fought. China has delivered to Ukraine many shipments of humanitarian aids, and sent its special representative many times to mediate among the countries concerned. The longer the Ukraine crisis drags on, the greater harm it will do to Europe and the world. China hopes that peace and stability will return to Europe at an early date. We stand ready to work with France and the whole international community to find a reasonable way out of the crisis.
The Palestinian-Israeli conflict pulls on our heartstrings as well. The fundamental solution lies in the establishment of an independent State of Palestine. History has repeatedly shown that the recurrent Palestine-Israel problem is rooted essentially in the failure of actual enforcement of relevant U.N. resolutions, in the continued erosion of the foundation for the two-State solution, and the deviation of the Middle East peace process. China and France have many in common on the Palestine-Israel issue. It is thus critical that we strengthen cooperation and help restore peace in the Middle East.
Confucius observed that “a man of true moral integrity is one who is both friendly but independent, and who does not compromise his principles, and who is independent without any bias or taking sides. How unflinchingly firm he is in his strength!” French writer Romain Rolland said that “it is so much easier to allow oneself to be guided than it is to think for oneself. This abdication is the kernel of the mischief.” Both China and France value independence as two major countries. Our interactions in the long course of history have released tremendous energy swaying the trajectory of the world. Now we are standing at another historical starting point. Let us join hands together on this new journey toward greater progress in China-France relations to the benefit of our two countries and the world!"
"May 5, 2024
It gives me great pleasure to begin my third state visit to the French Republic at the invitation of President Emmanuel Macron. Back in 2014 and 2019, I paid two visits to France, both in spring, to celebrate the 50th and 55th anniversaries of our diplomatic relations together with the people of France. As we celebrate the 60th anniversary of our diplomatic ties, I have a strong sense of déjà vu when setting foot again on the soil of your beautiful country. On behalf of the Chinese government and people, I wish to take this opportunity to extend our warmest greetings and best wishes to the French government and people.
As important representatives of Eastern and Western civilizations, China and France have a long history of mutual appreciation and admiration. French Enlightenment thinkers turned to study Chinese culture centuries ago, and great French thinkers and writers such as Voltaire, Diderot, Hugo and Balzac have been household names in China. Sixty years ago, our two countries broke through Cold War blocs and established diplomatic relations at the ambassadorial level. In the 60 years since, our bilateral relations have always stayed abreast of China’s relations with Western countries, setting a prime example for countries with different social systems to coexist in peace and pursue win-win cooperation.
In recent years, our relationship has risen to new heights, and we keep making new progress in our cooperation on aviation, aerospace, nuclear energy, agrifood and green development. Our two countries enjoy close coordination and cooperation on climate response, biodiversity protection and global governance. Activities of the China-France Year of Culture and Tourism are unfolding across the board. A growing China-France relationship not only brings benefits to our two peoples, but also provides stability and positive energy to the turbulent world.
During my visit, I will have an in-depth exchange of views with President Macron on growing China-France and China-Europe relations under the new circumstances as well as major international and regional issues in the world today. I hope this visit will help cement our long-standing friendship, enhance political trust, build strategic consensus and deepen exchanges and cooperation in various fields. I hope our two countries will light up our way forward with the torch of history, open a brighter future of China-France relations and make new contributions to world peace, stability and development."
"Special Address by H.E. Li Qiang
Premier of the State Council of the People’s Republic of China
At the Opening Ceremony
Of the World Economic Forum Annual Meeting 2024
Davos, January 16, 2024
Your Excellency President Viola Amherd,
Professor Klaus Schwab,
Your Excellencies State Leaders and Heads of International  Organizations,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
Greetings to you all. It gives me great pleasure to come to the beautiful Davos for the World Economic Forum Annual Meeting 2024.
The theme of this meeting, “Rebuilding Trust,” echoes well with people’s concerns and will surely strike a chord with many. As I see it, the word “rebuild” implies at least three things.
First
, trust was once prevalent. To a large extent, it was trust between countries that enabled the huge progress in economic globalization over the past decades.
Second
, the foundation of trust has now been eroded. The lack of trust is aggravating risks to global growth and peaceful development.
Third
, rebuilding trust is essential. Whether it is to overcome current difficulties, or to create a better future, it is essential that we discard prejudice, bridge differences and work as one to tackle the trust deficit.
Where does trust come from? In my view, it comes, first and foremost, from our shared aspiration for a better future for humanity and from our common will to work together for that vision. As President Xi Jinping points out, changes of the world, of our times, and of historical significance are unfolding like never before, and the world has entered a new period of turbulence and transformation. Yet the overall direction of human development and progress will not change, the overall dynamics of world history moving forward amid twists and turns will not change, and the overall trend toward a shared future for the international community will not change. After all the shifts and changes over the years, we should all the more cherish communication and exchange, all the more cherish solidarity and cooperation, all the more cherish openness and sharing, and all the more cherish peace and stability. These are not only ways to respond to changes, but in some sense, also ways to rebuild trust. In this connection, I wish to share with you five proposals on rebuilding trust and enhancing cooperation in the economic field.
First, strengthening macroeconomic policy coordination to build greater synergy for global growth.
In today’s world, countries have very close economic linkages, which means their macroeconomic policies have more notable spillover effects. In the face of global crises, fragmented and separate responses will only leave the world economy more fragile. As such, it is crucial that, in making and executing macro policies, countries around the world, especially major economies, step up dialogue and communication, take more coordinated and effective measures, firmly uphold the multilateral trading system, jointly improve global economic governance, and foster new drivers of global growth.
Second, strengthening international industrial specialization and collaboration to keep global industrial and supply chains stable and smooth.
Figures show that from 2020 to 2022, each year saw on average over 5,400 new discriminatory trade and investment measures worldwide, nearly doubling the number before the pandemic. As we all know, industrial and supply chains in the economy are like the circulatory system of the human body. Any obstacles or disruptions can slow down or block the flow of lifeblood of the world economy, which not only compromises development efficiency but also triggers various economic risks and social problems. What truly serves the common interests of all is to fully respect the laws of international industrial specialization, firmly advance trade and investment liberalization and facilitation, tighten the bond of cooperation, make the pie of mutual benefit bigger, and steadily enhance the stability of global industrial and supply chains.
Third, strengthening international exchanges and cooperation on science and technology to better benefit humanity with technological advances.
The new round of technological revolution and industrial transformation has created a new “coopetition” relationship between countries. To keep the competition healthy and bring out the greatest vitality, the only way is to enhance cooperation in innovation. Scientific and technological fruits should benefit humanity as a whole, instead of becoming a means to restrict or contain the development of other countries. We should advance international exchanges and cooperation on science and technology with a more open mindset and more open measures, work together for an open, just and nondiscriminatory environment for the development of science and technology, and break the barriers impeding the flow of factors of innovation, so as to let innovation thrive in an open environment.
Fourth, strengthening cooperation on green development to actively tackle climate change.
Humanity still faces many challenges in addressing climate change and promoting green and low-carbon transition. Talks about the need for stronger cooperation on climate governance are often accompanied by actions of erecting barriers to green trade. Some high-quality and efficient green and low-carbon technologies and products cannot flow freely. It is important that we uphold the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities, better synergize our green development strategies, remove various barriers in this field, and jointly work for a complete transition to a greener economy and society.
Fifth, strengthening North-South and South-South cooperation to build a universally beneficial and inclusive world economy.
In recent years, problems like the North-South gap, divergences in recovery, and the technological divide have become more acute. Many developing countries are in distress. According to World Bank estimates for this year, the average income in more than one third of the low-income countries will stay below the 2019 level. We Chinese people believe that benefits should be mutual. True and good development is development for all. We need to fully implement the U.N. 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, strengthen global development cooperation, bridge development gaps, and create new cooperation highlights in areas such as poverty alleviation, food security and industrialization, so as to benefit the people of all countries with more fruits of cooperation.
The traditional Chinese culture very much values credibility. China is a country that attaches great importance to commitments, honoring its words with concrete actions all along. With greatest sincerity, utmost efforts and concrete results, China has proven consistently to the world that it is a country most worthy of trust. We are also well aware that apart from objective reasons, there are also subjective factors that aggravate the trust deficit. In bilateral and multilateral relations, there are many examples where one side’s capriciousness undermines mutual trust with others. In our view, the best way to earn trust is to be a better version of oneself. Only when all sides treat each other with sincerity and work in the same direction can there be a stronger foundation of trust and more fruits of cooperation.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
Under the current circumstances, the world economic recovery requires strong underpinnings. Greater contribution is expected from all countries, especially major economies. I know that you all follow the Chinese economy closely and may have your own observations. So how should one look at the Chinese economy? I believe it is similar to looking at the Alps, the undulating mountain range with magnificent peaks, from the small town of Davos. My European friends told me that to fully appreciate the majestic beauty of the Alps, one has to zoom out and look from afar. It is the same with the Chinese economy. One has to broaden the vision and take a panoramic view to see the whole picture in an objective and comprehensive manner and truly grasp where it is now and where it is going. Here I would like to share with you some perspectives on the Chinese economy.
First, the Chinese economy is making steady progress and will continue to provide strong impetus for the world economy.
China is an important engine of global development. Over the years, its contribution to world economic growth has stayed at around 30 percent. In 2023, the Chinese economy rebounded and moved upward, with an estimated GDP growth of around 5.2 percent, higher than the around 5 percent target set at the beginning of the year. In promoting economic development, we did not resort to massive stimulus. We did not seek short-term growth while accumulating long-term risks. Rather, we focused on strengthening the internal drivers. As the second largest economy in the world, China has established, after years of development, sound and solid fundamentals. Just as a healthy person often has a strong immune system, the Chinese economy can handle ups and downs in its performance. The overall trend of long-term growth will not change.
In terms of the industrial base
, China is the only country with industries across all categories in the U.N. industrial classification. The added value of China’s manufacturing industry accounts for around 30 percent of the global total, ranking first in the world for 14 consecutive years. China is also home to over 200 mature industry clusters. With its large scale, complete categories and strong supporting capacity, China’s industrial system can meet the demand of the rapid development of social productivity and will contribute to better global allocation of production factors and the rise in global productivity.
In terms of production factors
, China’s demographic dividend is turning into talent dividend. We now rank first in the world in terms of the size of talent pool, human resources in science and technology and the total number of researchers. Capital shortage is replaced by abundance. Our global share of annual capital formation has risen to about 30 percent. In addition, with its huge data output and rich data resources, China has the second largest data mine in the world.
In terms of innovation capacity
, China’s total input in research and development and investment in the high-tech sector have been growing at double-digit rates for several years running. New technologies, including cloud computing, big data, artificial intelligence and blockchain, are being applied at a faster pace. New products and new business forms such as intelligent terminals, robots and telehealth keep emerging. China now has some 400,000 high-tech enterprises and ranks second globally in the number of unicorn companies. All this will boost the formation and cultivation of new growth drivers in China.
Looking at the broader picture
, we are now advancing Chinese modernization on all fronts through high-quality development. Delivering modernization to more than 1.4 billion people will be a remarkable achievement in human history, one that will provide continuous impetus to the development of China and the wider world.
Second, China has a supersize market with rapidly unlocked demand. It will continue to provide a big stage for various businesses and talents.
In face of weak global demand, market becomes the most scarce resource. The Chinese market, with its vast space and growing depth, will play an important role in boosting aggregate global demand. In China, there are now over 400 million people in the middle-income bracket, and the number is expected to reach 800 million in the next decade or so. For a growing range of products and services, the focus of consumer demand is shifting from quantity to quality, which will generate strong driving force for upgrading consumption. China’s urbanization rate is now more than 10 percentage points lower than the average level of the developed countries. There is much room for infrastructural upgrading in urban renewal, transportation and telecommunications, among others. There are also some 300 million rural migrants who are acquiring permanent urban residency at a faster pace. These will create massive demand in areas such as housing, education, medical services and elderly care. China is deepening its transition toward green and low-carbon growth. Close to half of the world’s installed photovoltaic capacity is in China. Over half of the world’s new energy vehicles (NEVs) run on roads in China, and its NEV ownership has reached over 20 million units. China contributes one-fourth of the increased area of afforestation in the world. China is also cultivating large-scale new growth drivers in sectors such as green infrastructure, green energy, green transportation and green lifestyle. This will generate investment and consumption markets with an estimated size of RMB10 trillion yuan annually, and promises huge potential. We will keep exploring and unleashing such market demand, increase import of high-quality goods and services from all over the world, attract more foreign investment in areas including medium- and high-end manufacturing and biopharmaceuticals, and provide broader space for boosting global trade and investment.
Third, China remains firmly committed to opening up. We will continue to create favorable conditions for the world to share in China’s opportunities.
In the past four decades and more, China has achieved development and shared benefits with the world through opening up. Right now, China is a major trading partner of over 140 countries and regions. Our overall tariff level has been cut to 7.3 percent, relatively on par with the developed members in the World Trade Organization. By opening up wider, we aim to share China’s opportunities and develop together with all in the world. To business leaders here today, I want to say that over the years, multinational corporations have cultivated the Chinese market and, based on China’s manufacturing prowess, expanded their global production, grown fast and had good reward. In the past five years, the return on foreign direct investment in China stands at around nine percent, which is quite competitive globally. Choosing the Chinese market is not a risk, but an opportunity. We embrace investments from businesses of all countries with open arms, and will work tirelessly to foster a market-oriented, law-based and world-class business environment. We will steadily expand institutional opening up, continue to shorten the negative list for foreign investment, follow through on removing all restrictions on access for foreign investment in the manufacturing sector, and guarantee national treatment for foreign businesses. With regard to concerns of some multinationals on issues such as cross-border data flow and equal participation in government procurement, we are working on the formulation of relevant policies. We will also hear the views of foreign businesses regularly and take active steps to address reasonable concerns. All in all, no matter how the world changes, China will stay committed to the fundamental national policy of opening up and open its door still wider to the world.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
In some 20 days, we will celebrate the Spring Festival to usher in the Chinese Year of the Dragon. In the traditional Chinese culture, the dragon is a symbol of auspiciousness, wisdom and strength. In the face of common challenges, we hope that all the members of the international community, with a shared aspiration for a better future and with the vigor of a flying dragon, will forge ahead toward building a community with a shared future for mankind.
To conclude, I wish this annual meeting a complete success.
Thank you."
"Remarks by H.E. Xi Jinping
General Secretary of the Central Committee
Of the Communist Party of China
And President of the People’s Republic of China
At Meeting with Representatives of Young Chinese and Vietnamese and People Who Have Contributed to China-Viet Nam Friendship
Hanoi, December 13, 2023
Your Excellency General Secretary Nguyen Phu Trong,
Madam Ngo Thi Man,
Comrades and Young Friends from China and Viet Nam,
Good afternoon.
It gives me great pleasure to meet you all. This is my second visit to your beautiful country in six years, and I can truly feel your warm and youthful vigor when I see you. Among you, many are old friends who have long been dedicated to China-Viet Nam friendship, and many are young and new friends. On behalf of the Communist Party of China and the Chinese government, I extend my warm regards to you.
Yesterday, General Secretary Nguyen Phu Trong and I jointly announced our decision to build a China-Viet Nam community with a shared future that carries strategic significance, thus ushering in a new stage in the relations between our two parties and countries. This is a major strategic decision we have made to revitalize world socialism and ensure long-term stability and security of our two countries. It is rooted in our traditional friendship and represents the shared interests and aspirations of our two peoples.
In the past, we stood by and reached out to each other as we pursued common goals together. In modern times, our two parties and peoples stayed true to our common ideals, and supported each other in trying times as we fought for national independence and liberation. Chairman Ho Chi Minh was engaged in revolutionary activities in China for 12 years, during which he first established the Vietnamese Revolutionary Youth League in Guangzhou, and later founded the Communist Party of Viet Nam in Hong Kong. For a long time, he also gave guidance to the Vietnamese revolution from Yunnan and Guangxi. Nong Qizhen, a villager in Guangxi’s Longzhou County, risked his life to protect Chairman Ho Chi Minh. It was in Guangxi where Chairman Ho Chi Minh wrote the resounding letter to all Vietnamese. He left Guangxi and returned to Viet Nam in 1945, where he led the August Revolution to victory, and founded the Democratic Republic of Viet Nam. In Viet Nam’s War Against French Occupation and its War Against U.S. Aggression to Save the Nation, more than 1,400 Chinese officers and men gave their lives, and they now rest in peace in Viet Nam. More than 5,000 injured Vietnamese soldiers were treated in Nanxishan Hospital in Guilin, Guangxi, and over 10,000 Vietnamese students received education in Yucai School there. Viet Nam also actively supported the Chinese Revolution. General Nguyen Son, who participated in the Guangzhou Uprising of 1927 and later joined the Long March of the Chinese Red Army, is well-known in China as a general of both countries. Today, when we read the famous poetic line by Chairman Ho Chi Minh that “So profound is the friendship between Viet Nam and China, because we are both comrades and brothers”, the memory of those fiery and exciting years of our two peoples is kept alive.
Today, we remain firmly committed to our shared aspiration forged in the early days and are pursuing win-win cooperation. Since we established the comprehensive strategic cooperative partnership 15 years ago, we the Communist Party of China and the Communist Party of Viet Nam have pursued people-centered mutually beneficial cooperation, delivering true benefits to our two peoples. In the new era, the general secretaries of the two Parties exchanged visits twice, ensuring the sound and steady growth of China-Viet Nam relations. Recently, General Secretary Nguyen Phu Trong made a special trip to the Youyi Pass, meaning the Friendship Pass, on the border of our countries and planted a friendship tree there. It demonstrates the great value he places on Viet Nam’s relations with China. Our two sides have fully leveraged the role of coordination of the steering committee for bilateral cooperation, which made sure more than 30 cooperation mechanisms such as the party-to-party theoretical symposium, the Border Defense Friendship Exchange, and the meeting on crime control between the two public security ministries play their due role. All these efforts have enabled us to share practices and engage in cooperation on Party and country governance, and these efforts have injected strong impetus into the industrialization and modernization endeavors of both countries.
China has long been the largest trading partner of Viet Nam, and Viet Nam is China’s largest trading partner in ASEAN and the fourth largest trading partner in the world. With the launch of China-Viet Nam cross-border freight train service and the smart port program, our land border ports have become rapidly interconnected. Large quantities of quality Vietnamese agricultural products, including lychee, durian and dragon fruit, are exported to China. Raw materials and machinery equipment imported from China have boosted the development of Viet Nam’s manufacturing sector and its export capacity. Close to 20 million trips have been made on the Cat Linh-Ha Dong metro line built by a Chinese company, which has provided a convenient and comfortable means of travels for Hanoi residents. The largest overseas photovoltaic industrial cluster built by Chinese companies is located in Viet Nam. This, together with many waste-to-energy plants built with Chinese investment and by Chinese companies in Hanoi and other cities, has supplied energy much needed for Viet Nam’s industrialization and modernization.
The Detian-Ban Gioc Waterfall cross-border tourism cooperation zone is on trial run. Friendly exchanges are flourishing, such as the friendly exchange between the national and local committees of the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference and the Viet Nam Fatherland Front, and the border residents gala. Both Chinese literature classics and contemporary Chinese film and television productions are popular in Viet Nam. Some Vietnamese pop songs are huge hits on Chinese social media, and Vietnamese singers who appeared in Chinese TV shows have won many fans in China. These fruitful activities of exchange and cooperation have forged a close cultural bond between our two peoples.
Looking ahead, we can see that we share the same future. Facing a world fraught with changes and turbulence, I have put forth the vision of building a community with a shared future for mankind as well as the Global Development Initiative, the Global Security Initiative and the Global Civilization Initiative, and called on all countries to jointly respond to global challenges. We are now striving to build China into a great modern socialist country in all respects and advance the rejuvenation of the Chinese nation on all fronts by pursuing Chinese modernization. What we are pursuing is not modernization just for China itself. We will stay committed to peaceful development, the policy of forging friendships and partnerships with neighbors, and the principles of amity, sincerity, mutual benefit and inclusiveness. And we are ready to share more of the benefits of Chinese modernization with our neighbors. Viet Nam, on its part, is vigorously advancing its industrialization and modernization drive to realize the goals set for the centenary of its Party and the centenary of the country.
Comrades,
Young Friends,
The foundation of China-Viet Nam friendship lies among our two peoples, and the future of this friendship will be created by the young people. I wish to express the following three wishes to you.
First, I hope that you will carry forward China-Viet Nam friendship and play your part in building a China-Viet Nam community with a shared future that carries strategic significance. With remarkable economic and social advances, China and Viet Nam demonstrate to the world that we have found the right development paths. And enhanced solidarity and cooperation will strengthen our socialist causes. I hope that people committed to China-Viet Nam friendship in various sectors in both countries, especially the young people, will take the lead in promoting our friendship, and contribute to our respective hundred-year pursuit of development goals and to the building of a China-Viet Nam community with a shared future that carries strategic significance.
Second, I hope that you will play your part in promoting the development of the Asia Pacific and contribute to enduring peace in our region. Our two countries have made tremendous achievement through, respectively, China’s reform and opening up and Viet Nam’s Doi Moi (reform) policy. This is credited not only to our own endeavors, but also to a peaceful, open and inclusive Asia Pacific. The Asia Pacific is the place which we call home. It is a source of power driving global growth. Openness, inclusiveness and mutually beneficial cooperation are the right course to follow. We should strive to build an Asia Pacific community, create more momentum to boost solidarity and make advances, and make greater contributions to making Asia Pacific more harmonious and prosperous.
Third, I hope that you will be pioneers in promoting human progress and contribute to the building of a community with a shared future for mankind. Our two Parties are both Marxist parties that bear in mind the overall interests of the world, and our two countries are both responsible members of the international community. And both of us should play a major role in advancing human progress. To build a community with a shared future for mankind is an inspiring goal, a goal that requires generations of efforts to achieve. We should be visionary, look beyond the horizon and shoulder responsibilities entrusted upon us by the times, stand up for international fairness and justice, and contribute our share to global development.
Comrades,
Young Friends,
As a Vietnamese saying puts it, with resolve, one will remain undaunted by any changes in the world. Keeping in mind the journey we have traversed will enable us to advance along the right path. The challenging paths China and Viet Nam have traveled and the remarkable achievements we have made in developing socialism fully demonstrate that enhanced solidarity and cooperation between our two countries has enabled us to overcome all risks and challenges and to move from one victory to another. Going forward, we need to remain true to our commitment and strive to fulfill our mission. And we should pursue our respective path to socialism and deliver the gains of industrialization and modernization to more people of our two countries. Let us join hands and make even greater contribution to the advancement of humanity.
Thank you."
"Signed Article by H.E. Xi Jinping
General Secretary of the Central Committee
Of the Communist Party of China
And President of the People’s Republic of China
On the
Nhan Dan
Newspaper of Viet Nam
I will soon pay a state visit to the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam at the invitation of General Secretary of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Viet Nam (CPV) Nguyen Phu Trong and President Vo Van Thuong. It will be my third visit to this beautiful country since I became General Secretary of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China (CPC) and President of the People’s Republic of China. I feel that I am already immersed in the warmth that people would only have when visiting relatives and neighbors.
China and Viet Nam are connected by mountains and rivers. We enjoy cultural proximity, cherish the same ideals, and have a shared future ahead of us. Inspired by common visions, convictions and empathy, Comrade Mao Zedong, Comrade Ho Chi Minh and other older-generation leaders of our two parties and countries jointly cultivated the China-Viet Nam traditional friendship featuring “camaraderie plus brotherhood.” We stood together wholeheartedly and supported each other in pursuing national independence and liberation. In advancing socialism, we shared our experience and expanded our cooperation, writing together a historic chapter of China-Viet Nam friendship.
This year marks the 15th anniversary of the China-Viet Nam comprehensive strategic cooperative partnership.
No matter how the global environment has changed, our two parties and countries have worked together to uphold peace and tranquility, pursue development and cooperation, and promote prosperity and progress. We have found a promising path of jointly building a community with a shared future for mankind.
We have conducted exchanges with mutual trust.
Leaders of our two parties and countries have visited each other frequently like relatives. I had close interactions with General Secretary Nguyen Phu Trong through the year. We jointly drew up a blueprint for China-Viet Nam relations in the new era from a strategic and long-term perspective, adding new dimensions to the relationship and raising it up to a new stage. I met with President Vo Van Thuong, Prime Minister Pham Minh Chinh, and permanent member of the Secretariat of the Central Committee of the CPV Truong Thi Mai, who came to China for bilateral visits or international conferences. The two sides held the session of the steering committee for bilateral cooperation, the party-to-party theoretical symposium, the conference on crime control between the two public security ministries, and other meetings under bilateral mechanisms. Interagency and subnational cooperation was getting ever closer.
We have enhanced our common interests with mutually beneficial cooperation.
China has long been Viet Nam’s largest trading partner, and Viet Nam is China’s biggest trading partner in ASEAN and the fourth largest globally. At China’s invitation, Vietnamese leaders attended the third Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation, the sixth China International Import Expo, the seventh China-South Asia Expo, and the 20th China-ASEAN Expo. Vietnamese agricultural exports including fruits and vegetables are the favorites of Chinese consumers. China’s raw materials and machinery equipment exported to Viet Nam effectively boosted the Vietnamese manufacturing sector. Viet Nam’s first urban light rail project, the Cat Linh-Ha Dong metro line which was built by a Chinese company, has served nearly 20 million passenger trips so far, making travels in Hanoi more convenient. China-Viet Nam cross-border freight trains are up and running smoothly, the smart port program has been launched, and connectivity at land boundary ports has been advanced rapidly. The largest overseas photovoltaic industrial cluster that Chinese businesses have constructed to date is in Viet Nam. This, together with wind power stations built by Chinese companies, has greatly helped with the transformation of energy use in Viet Nam. Chinese companies also invested in and constructed many waste-to-energy plants in Hanoi, Can Tho and other cities.
We have brought our two peoples closer together through friendly exchanges.
Travels between the two countries quickly rebounded this year. From January to October, Chinese tourists made more than 1.3 million visits to Viet Nam. The Detian-Ban Gioc Waterfall cross-border tourism cooperation zone has started trial operation. Friendly exchanges have also achieved great success, including the friendly exchange between the national and local committees of the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference and the Viet Nam Fatherland Front, and the border residents gala. While some Chinese literature classics are household names in Viet Nam, contemporary Chinese film and television productions are also loved by Vietnamese audience. Likewise, some Vietnamese pop songs are huge hits on Chinese social media, and Vietnamese singers who appeared in Chinese TV shows have won many fans in China. The small creeks of ever closer people-to-people interactions are converging into a mighty river of friendly ties between China and Viet Nam.
We have always treated each other with sincerity.
As two vocal advocates of multilateralism, both China and Viet Nam value the importance of dialogue, consultation, and peaceful cooperation, and firmly uphold the basic norms of international relations underpinned by the purposes and principles of the U.N. Charter. We support each other on issues involving our respective core interests and major concerns, and maintain close coordination in regional and international cooperation mechanisms. Viet Nam is an important player in the Group of Friends of the Global Development Initiative (GDI). It supports the Global Security Initiative (GSI) and the Global Civilization Initiative (GCI), and supports China’s accession to the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership.
It has been 10 years since I first put forth the vision of a community with a shared future for mankind, the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), and the principles of amity, sincerity, mutual benefit and inclusiveness for China’s foreign policy toward neighboring countries.
Building a community with a shared future for mankind should start from Asia. A popular Chinese song goes, “In our Asia, the roots of trees are linked; in our Asia, even clouds drift hand in hand.” The lyrics reflect the Chinese people’s basal perception of Asia as a community with a shared future. Asia is our common home. Neighboring countries cannot be moved away. Helping one’s neighbor is helping oneself, and good neighbors wish each other well. China is ready to better align its development with that of its neighbors, and work with them together to build a community with a shared future and deliver a better life to all. Viet Nam’s friendship with China featuring “camaraderie plus brotherhood” is profound indeed. The CPC and the Chinese government always take it as a priority in our neighborhood diplomacy to develop relations with Viet Nam. We sincerely hope that our two nations will always hold dear to the hearts our traditional friendship, always keep in mind our shared visions and missions, advance together along the socialist path, and steadily promote the building of a community with a shared future that carries strategic significance.
—We need to maintain strategic communication and reinforce the political foundation for a China-Viet Nam community with a shared future.
It is important that we keep strategic communication at high levels to ensure that the ship of China-Viet Nam relations can break waves and keep making steady progress. We should firmly support each other in pursuing the socialist path suited to our respective national realities. We should coordinate our two priorities, i.e., development and security, and jointly act on the GDI, the GSI and the GCI. We need to deepen exchanges on the theory and practices of socialist development, fend off external risks and challenges together, and ensure steady and sustained progress in our socialist endeavors.
—We need to make good use of our complementary strengths to cement the cooperation foundation for a China-Viet Nam community with a shared future.
China is promoting a new development paradigm through high-quality opening up, and Viet Nam is in the period of robust economic growth. We both should bring out the full potential in our geographical proximity and complementarity of industries. Among others, we should accelerate synergizing the BRI and the Two Corridors and One Economic Circle strategy, and broaden cooperation in such areas as connectivity, SOE reform, green energy and critical minerals, in a bid to better serve our respective national development and benefit our two peoples.
—We need to step up friendly exchanges to cement popular support for a China-Viet Nam community with a shared future.
A close neighbor is better than a distant relative. The people are the root, the lifeline and the source of strength of China-Viet Nam relations. We should enhance friendly cooperation and exchanges, and make full use of counterpart exchange mechanisms such as central media outlets, think tanks, cultural and tourism departments, publishers, as well as radio, film and television institutions. We should deepen cooperation in Chinese language education, vocational education, sports and health. We should ensure the success of flagship events including the China-Viet Nam People’s Forum and the China-Viet Nam Youth Friendship Meeting with a view to increasing mutual understanding and affinity between our peoples, especially the younger generation. We should also have more direct flights between us. China will encourage more tourists to visit Viet Nam to experience the unique charm of the Vietnamese culture and history.
—We need to properly manage differences and expand the consensus for a China-Viet Nam community with a shared future.
Both sides need to act on the common understandings reached by the leaders of our two parties and countries, properly manage differences on maritime issues, and jointly look for mutually acceptable solutions. Both should bear in mind the long-term well-being of our peoples, and stay committed to striving for mutual benefit and win-win cooperation. Both should vigorously promote cooperation, and make due efforts to build an enabling external environment for our respective development and to realize long-term stability and security in our region.
In today’s world, changes on a scale unseen in a century are unfolding at an accelerated pace. Hegemonism, unilateralism and protectionism are on the rise. Peace and development in the region are confronted with fairly grave challenges of instability and uncertainty. Standing on the historical foundation of a time-honored civilization, Asia has come to a critical juncture of development and revitalization. Its emerging markets and developing economies will remain the powerhouse of world economic growth.
History has proved time and again that a country or a region can only prosper when it follows the logic of history and keeps pace with the trend of the times. Asia’s future is in the hands of no one but Asians. Over the past decade, the Asian people have more and more realized that they can only keep abreast with the trend toward peace, development and progress by jointly acting on the principles of amity, sincerity, mutual benefit and inclusiveness and promoting the Asian values of peace, cooperation, inclusiveness and integration. They can only further unclog the regional economic circulation and upgrade it to deliver more benefit to Asians by staying committed to win-win cooperation, promoting the BRI under the principle of planning, building and benefiting together, and opening their door wider to the world. They can only build a peaceful, tranquil, prosperous, beautiful, amicable and harmonious home in Asia by vigorously working together for an Asian community with a shared future and making one country’s development part of the common development of all countries.
An ancient Chinese philosopher once observed, “Plants with strong roots grow well, and efforts on the right path ensure success.” No matter how drastically the world may evolve, China will always stay on the right path. Currently, we are striving to build China into a great modern socialist country in all respects and to advance the rejuvenation of the Chinese nation on all fronts through the Chinese path to modernization. We will continue to promote high-quality development and high-standard opening up, and move faster toward the new development paradigm. We will keep our neighborhood policy consistent and stable. We will remain committed to the guidelines of developing friendship and partnership with our neighbors and fostering an amicable, secure and prosperous neighborhood. At the same time, we will seek to add new substance to the principles of amity, sincerity, mutual benefit and inclusiveness. We will bring more benefits to our neighbors through Chinese modernization, jointly move forward Asia’s modernization process, and provide new development opportunities for Viet Nam and other Asian countries.
I believe that a China-Viet Nam community with a shared future that carries strategic significance will draw more countries to the great cause of building an Asian community with a shared future as well as building a community with a shared future for mankind. It will lend more positive energy to our efforts for long-term development and good-neighborliness in Asia, and make greater contributions to peace and development of the world."
"Remarks by H.E. Xi Jinping
President of the People’s Republic of China
At the Extraordinary Joint Meeting of BRICS Leaders
And Leaders of Invited BRICS Members
On the Situation in the Middle East with Particular Reference to Gaza
November 21, 2023
Your Excellency President Cyril Ramaphosa,
Colleagues,
This is our first summit since the expansion of BRICS. Before I speak about the issue of our discussion, I wish to extend a warm welcome to leaders of new BRICS members and express my thanks to President Ramaphosa and the South African government for your efforts that have made our meeting possible. Given the current circumstances, it is very timely and very important that we meet and speak up for justice and for peace on the Palestinian-Israeli issue.
The conflict in Gaza is raging on into its second month. China is gravely concerned that the conflict is causing enormous civilian casualties and a humanitarian disaster, and tends to expand and spill over. China believes that the following is urgent and imperative: First, the parties to the conflict must end hostilities and achieve a ceasefire immediately, stop all violence and attacks against civilians, release civilians held captive, and act to prevent loss of more lives and spare people from more miseries. Second, humanitarian corridors must be kept secure and unimpeded, and more humanitarian assistance should be provided to the population in Gaza. The collective punishment of people in Gaza in the form of forced transfer or water, electricity and fuel deprivation must stop. Third, the international community must act with practical measures to prevent the conflict from spilling over and endangering stability in the Middle East as a whole. China supports the resolution adopted at the emergency special session of the U.N. General Assembly on October 27. The U.N. Security Council under China’s presidency has adopted Resolution 2712. All the parties must act to deliver on these resolutions through concrete measures on the ground.
The root cause of the Palestinian-Israeli situation is the fact that the right of the Palestinian people to statehood, their right to existence, and their right of return have long been ignored. I have emphasized on many occasions that the only viable way to break the cycle of Palestinian-Israeli conflict lies in the two-state solution, in the restoration of the legitimate national rights of Palestine, and in the establishment of an independent State of Palestine. There can be no sustainable peace and security in the Middle East without a just solution to the question of Palestine. China calls for early convening of an international peace conference that is more authoritative to build international consensus for peace and work toward an early solution to the question of Palestine that is comprehensive, just and sustainable.
Since the outbreak of the latest Palestinian-Israeli conflict, China has been working actively to promote peace talks and a ceasefire. China has provided humanitarian assistance to help ease the humanitarian plight in Gaza. This includes USD 2 million of emergency humanitarian assistance provided through the Palestinian National Authority and U.N. agencies, and emergency humanitarian supplies worth RMB 15 million, such as food and medicine, to the Gaza Strip with the help of Egypt. China will provide more supplies and assistance according to the needs of the people in Gaza. At the U.N. Security Council, China has acted in its capacity as president to facilitate the adoption of the resolution, which calls for extended humanitarian pauses and corridors, the protection of civilians, and the provision of humanitarian assistance.
Colleagues,
The BRICS cooperation mechanism is an important platform for emerging markets and developing countries to strengthen solidarity and cooperation and safeguard common interests. Our meeting today to coordinate positions and actions on the Palestinian-Israeli conflict marks a good start for greater BRICS cooperation following its enlargement. China commends South Africa for its significant contribution as BRICS chair to advancing BRICS development. As Russia will take over BRICS chairmanship next year, China stands ready to work with other members to jointly support Russia’s work as the chair and usher in a new era for BRICS cooperation.
Thank you."
"Remarks by H.E. Xi Jinping
President of the People’s Republic of China
At the 30th APEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting
San Francisco, November 17, 2023
The Honorable President Joe Biden,
Colleagues,
It is my great pleasure to meet you all in beautiful San Francisco. This APEC economic leaders’ meeting, the 30th of its kind, holds special significance. I wish to thank President Biden and the U.S. government for the thoughtful arrangements for this meeting.
Since the establishment of the economic leaders’ regular meeting mechanism, APEC has always stood at the global forefront of openness and development. It has played a robust role in promoting Asia-Pacific trade and investment liberalization and facilitation, economic growth and technological progress, and the flow of goods and people. It has helped create the “Asia-Pacific miracle” that has staggered the world.
In the world today, changes on a scale unseen in a century are unfolding at an accelerating pace. The world economy faces multiple risks and challenges. The Asia-Pacific region, which is an engine of global growth, thus has greater responsibility in these times. We, the leaders of Asia-Pacific economies, must think very hard as to what kind of Asia-Pacific region we should have by the middle of this century, what we should do to usher in another “golden 30 years” for the region, and how we can bring out the best of APEC in this process.
An ancient Chinese sage said, “For a righteous cause, I shall press forward, undaunted by thousands standing in my way.” In the same spirit, we must remain steadfast in our commitment to APEC’s founding mission. We must respond to the calls of our times responsibly and meet global challenges together. We must fully deliver on the Putrajaya Vision of building an open, dynamic, resilient and peaceful Asia-Pacific community for the prosperity of all our people and future generations. To this end, I wish to propose the following.
First, staying committed to innovation-driven development. Innovation is a strong driver of development. We should follow the trends of scientific and technological advancement, more proactively promote exchanges and cooperation in science and technology, and work together for an open, fair, equitable and non-discriminatory environment for scientific and technological progress. We should accelerate digital transformation, narrow the digital divide, redouble our efforts to implement the APEC Internet and Digital Economy Roadmap, support the application of big data, cloud computing, artificial intelligence, quantum computing and other new technologies, and create new momentum and new drivers of growth in the Asia-Pacific region.
China remains committed to its strategy for driving growth and development through innovation. China is advancing both its digital industry and the digital transformation of traditional industries. China has put forward a number of initiatives for promoting growth and development in the region through digital empowerment, such as digital technology-driven rural development, corporate digital identity, and transition to a green and low-carbon economy through the application of digital technologies.
Second, staying committed to openness in development. As manifested by the Asia-Pacific experience, an economy thrives in openness and withers in seclusion. We must promote free and open trade and investment, support and strengthen the WTO-centered multilateral trading regime, and keep global industrial and supply chains open and stable. We must say no to any attempt to politicize, weaponize, or impose security implications on economic and trade issues. We must remain unwavering to promote regional economic integration, accelerate the building of a Free Trade Area of the Asia-Pacific, fully implement the APEC Connectivity Blueprint, and share in the opportunities of open regional development.
The recent third Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation that China hosted was a success, injecting fresh impetus into global connectivity and the building of an open world economy. China applies the highest standards in implementing the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement, and has taken proactive steps to align its economic and trade rules with the high standards of the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP) and the Digital Economic Partnership Agreement (DEPA), to accelerate the process of its accession to the CPTPP and DEPA. China will work with all relevant parties to write a new chapter in open development.
Third, staying committed to green development. Given the increasingly grave challenges such as climate change and natural disasters, we must continue to promote harmony between man and nature, accelerate the transition to green and low-carbon development, and see to it that reducing carbon emissions and mitigating pollution operate in parallel with expanding green transition and promoting economic growth. We must deliver on the Bangkok Goals on Bio-Circular-Green (BCG) Economy, making “green” a defining feature of Asia-Pacific growth.
China remains as determined as ever to pursue green development that prioritizes eco-environmental conservation and protection. China is making active yet prudent moves toward its goal of carbon peak and carbon neutrality, and is accelerating its transition to green development. China has put forward initiatives for cooperation between APEC member economies in green agriculture, sustainable city development, green and low-carbon energy transition, and marine pollution control and prevention. All such initiatives aim to build a clean and beautiful Asia-Pacific region.
Fourth, staying committed to inclusive development that delivers benefits to all. Global development now faces severe challenges and the development divide is getting wider. I have said on many occasions that true development is development for all. We must fully implement the U.N. 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, and put development back on the international agenda as a central priority. We need to develop greater synergy in our development strategies and work together to resolve the global development deficit. China welcomes participation by all parties in the Global Development Initiative (GDI) to deepen cooperation in poverty reduction, food security, industrialization and development financing and build a global community of development so that the fruits of modernization are shared by people across the world. China will continue to support APEC in its economic and technical cooperation and work together with other member economies to make the “cake” of Asia-Pacific development bigger.
Colleagues,
China is advancing the noble cause of building a great country and national rejuvenation on all fronts through a Chinese path to modernization. China will remain committed to the path of peaceful development. The ultimate goal of China’s development is to better our people’s lives, not to unseat anyone. As we celebrate 45 years of our reform and opening up this year, we will continue to pursue high-quality development and high-standard opening up. Chinese modernization will bring the world more and greater opportunities for the modernization of all countries. I am ready to work with you for new success in Asia-Pacific cooperation and for another “golden 30 years” of the region.
Thank you."
"Written Speech by H.E. Xi Jinping
President of the People’s Republic of China
At the APEC CEO Summit
San Francisco, November 16, 2023
Representatives of the Business Community,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
It gives me great pleasure to be invited to address the APEC CEO Summit. I visited San Francisco many years ago, and I was deeply impressed by the openness, inclusiveness and creativity which this beautiful city is famous for.
Three decades ago, where humanity should be headed in the post-Cold War era was the question of the world, of history and of the times in front of Asia-Pacific leaders. In response, they followed the trend toward peace and development, and convened the inaugural APEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting. They agreed unanimously to rise above the outdated mentality of bloc confrontation and zero-sum game, deepen economic cooperation and integration in the region, and build a dynamic, harmonious and prosperous Asia-Pacific community. This major decision enabled Asia-Pacific development and economic globalization to embark on a fast track of growth, turning the region into a powerhouse for world economic growth, an anchor of stability for global development, and a pacesetter for international cooperation. There is so much we can draw from this remarkable journey of Asia-Pacific cooperation.
—Openness and inclusiveness are the defining feature of Asia-Pacific cooperation.
Development in our region has been achieved not through provoking antagonism and confrontation, pursuing a beggar-thy-neighbor policy, or erecting high fences around a small yard, but by staying open and inclusive and drawing on each other’s strengths. We have stayed committed to open regionalism, jointly formulated the Bogor Goals and the Putrajaya Vision, promoted trade and investment liberalization and facilitation, and bolstered economic integration of the region. Over the past three decades, the Asia-Pacific has cut its average tariff rate from 17 percent to 5 percent, and contributed 70 percent of global economic growth.
—Development for all is the overarching goal of Asia-Pacific cooperation.
Development is an eternal pursuit in our region. We have stayed focused on development and continually deepened economic and technical cooperation, thus strengthening the ability of developing members to achieve self-development. We jointly developed “the APEC Approach” based on the principles of voluntarism, consensus-building and incremental progress, and we respect the right to development of all members. Over the past three decades, per capita income in the Asia-Pacific has more than quadrupled, and one billion people have been lifted out of poverty. This is an important contribution to human progress and global sustainable development.
—Seeking common ground while shelving differences is the best practice of Asia-Pacific cooperation.
Economies in the region have different histories and cultures and are in different stages of development.
Forcing uniformity will not advance cooperation in the region; seeking common ground while shelving differences is the right way forward. Over the past three decades, we have properly tackled major challenges such as the Asian and international financial crises, and have sustained the momentum of economic development in the Asia-Pacific. Our success was possible because we have followed the underlying trend, kept the larger picture in mind, and capitalized on the spirit of partnership featuring harmony without uniformity, and solidarity and mutual assistance. This has enabled us to turn diversity in membership into momentum for cooperation and make collective progress through tapping into complementarity.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
The world has entered a new period of turbulence and change. The momentum of world economic growth is sluggish. Destabilizing, uncertain and unpredictable factors are increasing. Where will Asia-Pacific cooperation be headed in the next 30 years? This is a new question of the times facing us. As an ancient Chinese scholar observed, “Plants with strong roots grow well, and efforts with the right focus ensure success.” We should stay committed to APEC’s founding mission, never forget our mission bestowed by history, and move to relaunch Asia-Pacific cooperation.
San Francisco, where the United Nations Charter was signed, embodies the noble aspiration of all peoples for peace across the world. Peace does not come by easily, and development is a long and arduous task. We should jointly uphold the purposes and principles of the U.N. Charter, and follow the right norms for state-to-state relations to maintain Asia-Pacific prosperity and stability through dialogue and partnership rather than confrontation and alliance. The region cannot and should not be an arena for geopolitical rivalry, still less should it be plunged into a new cold war or camp-based confrontation.
The story of Asia-Pacific prosperity and development shows that development is only possible with cooperation, absence of cooperation is the biggest risk, and that decoupling and supply-chain disruption are not in anyone’s interests. We should remain committed to open regionalism, and steadfastly advance the building of a Free Trade Area of the Asia-Pacific. We should respect laws governing economic development, bring out the best in each and every one of us, make our economies more interconnected, strengthen synergy between relevant regional trade agreements and development strategies, and build an open Asia-Pacific economy featuring win-win cooperation.
Facing a new wave of scientific and technological revolution and industrial transformation, we should look beyond the horizon, seize the opportunities, and move along with the trend to promote transition to digital, smart and green development. We should jointly boost innovation and market application of scientific and technological advances, and push forward full integration of digital and physical economies. We should jointly improve global governance of science and technology, bolster support for green and digital transition and sustainable development through innovation, and build an open, fair, just and non-discriminatory environment for the development of science and technology.
Ten years ago, I called for building a community with a shared future for mankind. The APEC Putrajaya Vision explicitly lays out its vision for an Asia-Pacific community by 2040, charting the course for further cooperation in our region. In recent years, in response to the pressing needs around the world, I have proposed the Global Development Initiative (GDI), the Global Security Initiative (GSI) and the Global Civilization Initiative (GCI). They are intended to galvanize all stakeholders to address global challenges, promote common development, and improve the well-being of humanity. China will work with all in the Asia-Pacific to advance and implement these initiatives, and build an open, inclusive, clean and beautiful world of lasting peace, universal security and shared prosperity.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
This year, China’s economy has been steadily recovering and turning for the better. Its growth rate is among the highest among major economies of the world. And solid gains have been made in our pursuit of high-quality development. China remains the most powerful engine of global growth, and will generate one-third of global growth this year. Just as some leaders of the business community have said, China has become a synonym of the best investment destination, and that the “next China” is still China. We invite friends from business communities across the world to invest and deepen your footprint in China.
China enjoys distinct strengths such as a socialist market economy in systemic terms, a supersize market in terms of demand, a full-fledged industrial system in terms of supply, and abundant, high-caliber labor forces and entrepreneurs in terms of human resources. China’s economic development is self-generative, resilient and has many potentials. In the past, China surmounted numerous difficulties and obstacles by defusing risks and meeting challenges, and made historic achievements. Today, the overall Chinese economy, blessed by its strong resilience, enormous potential and ample room for maneuver, remains promising, and it will remain so in the long run. We have the confidence in, and even more capability of achieving long-term and stable growth, and through our development we will continue to provide the world with new growth momentum and opportunities.
China is committed to applying the new development philosophy with a focus on achieving innovative, coordinated, green and open development for all, and it is pursuing high-quality development and high value-added and green economic growth. Recent years have seen rapid growth in  China’s export of “the new three,” namely, new energy vehicles, lithium-ion batteries and photovoltaic products. A national voluntary greenhouse gas emissions reduction trading market will soon be launched, which will create huge green market opportunities. China will expedite its efforts to modernize the industrial system, provide better institutional safeguards to enable business entities of all types to share in the gains of development, and foster new drivers of growth and create more room for development.
We remain committed to pursuing development with our doors open. We will unswervingly advance high-standard opening up and further expand market access. China has announced the removal of all restrictive measures on foreign investment in manufacturing. The sixth China International Import Expo was held recently, and the second Global Digital Trade Expo will be held later this month. All these steps will expand China’s opening up and create more development opportunities and benefits for other countries. China is applying high standards to its implementation of the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement. It is working to align itself with the high-standard economic and trade rules of the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership and the Digital Economy Partnership Agreement to advance the process of acceding to these two agreements, and expand a globally-oriented network of high-standard free trade areas. This year marks the 10th anniversary of the Belt and Road Initiative that I proposed. Last month, China hosted the third Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation with 458 deliverables. Chinese financial institutions established a financing window of RMB 780 billion for Belt and Road projects, and Chinese and foreign companies reached business deals worth USD 97.2 billion. All this will contribute to high-quality Belt and Road cooperation, and provide strong momentum for connectivity, development and prosperity around the world.
No matter how the international situation evolves, China’s resolve to foster a market-oriented, law-based and world-class business environment will not change. And our policy of providing equal and quality services to foreign investors will not change. We will continue to improve the mechanisms for protecting the rights and interests of foreign investors, further shorten the negative list on foreign investment, fully ensure national treatment for foreign investors, and continue to strengthen IPR protection. We will strive to tear down the barriers to the flow of innovation factors, deepen reform of the digital economy, and promote free and orderly flow of data in compliance with the law. We will also take more “heart-warming” measures, such as improving the policies on entry and stay of foreign nationals in China and removing for them choke points in financial, medical, e-payment and other services. All this is designed to make it easier for foreign companies to invest and operate in China.
I wish to stress that Chinese modernization naturally calls for high-quality development by overcoming economic challenges and making steady progress. Its immutable goal is to deliver a better life to the whole of more than 1.4 billion Chinese people. For the world, this means a broader market and unprecedented cooperation opportunities. It will also instill strong impetus in the global modernization endeavor.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
The Asia-Pacific business community has always been courageous pioneers in Asia-Pacific cooperation and global development. I hope that you will make full use of your entrepreneurship, and contribute even more to building an open Asia-Pacific economy and boosting global economic development. I also hope to see an active part of the global business community in the Chinese modernization drive to benefit from the huge opportunities brought by China’s high-quality development!
Thank you."
"Speech by H.E. Xi Jinping
President of the People’s Republic of China
At Welcome Dinner by Friendly Organizations in the United States
San Francisco, November 15, 2023
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
It gives me great pleasure to meet with you, friends from across the American society, in San Francisco to renew our friendship and strengthen our bond. My first visit to the United States in 1985 started from San Francisco, which formed my first impression of this country. Today I still keep a photo of me in front of the Golden Gate Bridge.
Before going further, I wish to express my sincere thanks to the National Committee on U.S.-China Relations, the U.S.-China Business Council, the Asia Society, the Council on Foreign Relations, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and other friendly organizations for hosting this event. I also want to express my warm greetings to all American friends who have long committed to growing China-U.S. relations and my best wishes to the friendly American people.
San Francisco has borne witness to exchanges between the Chinese and American peoples for over a century. A hundred and fifty-eight years ago, a large number of Chinese workers came all the way to the United States to build the first transcontinental railroad, and established in San Francisco the oldest Chinatown in the Western Hemisphere. From here, China and the United States have made many achievements—USD 760 billion of annual bilateral trade and over USD 260 billion of two-way investment, 284 pairs of sister provinces/states and sister cities, and over 300 scheduled flights every week and over five million travels every year at peak time. These extraordinary accomplishments were made jointly by our peoples accounting for nearly one quarter of the global population.
San Francisco has also borne witness to the efforts by China and the United States in building a better world. Seventy-eight years ago, after jointly defeating fascism and militarism, our two countries initiated together with others the San Francisco Conference, which helped found the United Nations, and China was the first country to sign the U.N. Charter. Starting from San Francisco, the postwar international order was established. Over 100 countries have gained independence one after another. Several billion people have eventually shaken off poverty. The forces for world peace, development and progress have grown stronger. This has been the main fruit jointly achieved by people of all countries and the international community.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
The foundation of China-U.S. relations was laid by our peoples.
During World War II, our two countries fought side by side for peace and justice. Headed by General Claire Lee Chennault, a group of American volunteers, known as the Flying Tigers, went to the battlefield in China. They not only engaged in direct combats fighting Japanese aggressors, but also created “The Hump” airlift to transport much-needed supplies to China. More than 1,000 Chinese and American airmen lost their lives on this air route. After Japan attacked Pearl Harbor, the United States sent 16 B-25 bombers on an air raid to Japan in 1942. Running low on fuel after completing their mission, Lieutenant Colonel James Doolittle and his fellow pilots parachuted in China. They were rescued by Chinese troops and local civilians. But some 250,000 civilian Chinese were killed by Japanese aggressors in retaliation.
The Chinese people never forget the Flying Tigers. We built a Flying Tigers museum in Chongqing, and invited over 1,000 Flying Tigers veterans and their families to visit China. I have kept in touch with some of them through letters. Most recently, 103-year-old Harry Moyer and 98-year-old Mel McMullen, both Flying Tigers veterans, went back to China. They visited the Great Wall, and were warmly received by the Chinese people.
The American people, on their part, always remember the Chinese who risked their lives to save American pilots. Offspring of those American pilots often visit the Doolittle Raid Memorial Hall in Quzhou of Zhejiang Province to pay tribute to the Chinese people for their heroic and valorous efforts. These stories fill me with firm confidence that the friendship between our two peoples, which has stood the test of blood and fire, will be passed on from generation to generation.
The door of China-U.S. relations was opened by our peoples.
For 22 years, there were estrangement and antagonism between our two countries. But the trend of the times brought us together, converging interests enabled us to rise above differences, and the people’s longing broke the ice between the two countries. In 1971, the U.S. table tennis team visited Beijing—a small ball moved the globe. Not long after that, Mr. Mike Mansfield led the first U.S. Congressional delegation to China. This was followed by the first governors’ delegation including Iowa Governor Robert Ray and then many business delegations, forming waves of friendly exchanges.
This year, after the world emerged from the COVID-19 pandemic, I have respectively met in Beijing with Dr. Henry Kissinger, Mr. Bill Gates, Senator Chuck Schumer and his Senate colleagues, and Governor Gavin Newsom. I told them that the hope of the China-U.S. relationship lies in the people, its foundation is in our societies, its future depends on the youth, and its vitality comes from exchanges at subnational levels. I welcome more U.S. governors, Congressional members, and people from all walks of life to visit China.
The stories of China-U.S. relations are written by our peoples.
During my first visit to the United States, I stayed at the Dvorchaks in Iowa. I still remember their address—2911 Bonnie Drive. That was my first face-to-face contact with the Americans. The days I spent with them are unforgettable. For me, they represent America. I have found that although our two countries are different in history, culture and social system and have embarked on different development paths, our two peoples are both kind, friendly, hardworking and down-to-earth. We both love our countries, our families and our lives, and we both are friendly toward each other and are interested in each other. It is the convergence of many streams of goodwill and friendship that has created a strong current surging across the vast Pacific Ocean; it is the reaching out to each other by our peoples that has time and again brought China-U.S. relations from a low ebb back onto the right track. I am convinced that once opened, the door of China-U.S. relations cannot be shut again. Once started, the cause of China-U.S. friendship cannot be derailed halfway. The tree of our peoples’ friendship has grown tall and strong; and it can surely withstand the assault of any wind or storm.
The future of China-U.S. relations will be created by our peoples.
The more difficulties there are, the greater the need for us to forge a closer bond between our peoples and to open our hearts to each other, and more people need to speak up for the relationship. We should build more bridges and pave more roads for people-to-people interactions. We must not erect barriers or create a chilling effect.
Today, President Biden and I reached important consensus. Our two countries will roll out more measures to facilitate travels and promote people-to-people exchanges, including increasing direct passenger flights, holding a high-level dialogue on tourism, and streamlining visa application procedures. We hope that our two peoples will make more visits, contacts and exchanges and write new stories of friendship in the new era. I also hope that California and San Francisco will continue to take the lead on the journey of growing China-U.S. friendship!
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
We are in an era of challenges and changes. It is also an era of hope. The world needs China and the United States to work together for a better future. We, the largest developing country and the largest developed country, must handle our relations well. In a world of changes and chaos, it is ever more important for us to have the mind, assume the vision, shoulder the responsibility, and play the role that come along with our status as major countries.
I have always had one question on my mind: How to steer the giant ship of China-U.S. relations clear of hidden rocks and shoals, navigate it through storms and waves without getting disoriented, losing speed or even having a collision?
In this respect, the number one question for us is: are we adversaries, or partners? This is the fundamental and overarching issue. The logic is quite simple. If one sees the other side as a primary competitor, the most consequential geopolitical challenge and a pacing threat, it will only lead to misinformed policy making, misguided actions, and unwanted results. China is ready to be a partner and friend of the United States. The fundamental principles that we follow in handling China-U.S. relations are mutual respect, peaceful coexistence and win-win cooperation.
Just as mutual respect is a basic code of behavior for individuals, it is fundamental for China-U.S. relations. The United States is unique in its history, culture and geographical position, which have shaped its distinct development path and social system. We fully respect all this. The path of socialism with Chinese characteristics has been found under the guidance of the theory of scientific socialism, and is rooted in the tradition of the Chinese civilization with an uninterrupted history of more than 5,000 years. We are proud of our choice, just as you are proud of yours. Our paths are different, but both are the choice by our peoples, and both lead to the realization of the common values of humanity. They should be both respected.
Peaceful coexistence is a basic norm for international relations, and is even more of a baseline that China and the United States should hold on to as two major countries. It is wrong to view China, which is committed to peaceful development, as a threat and thus play a zero-sum game against it. China never bets against the United States, and never interferes in its internal affairs. China has no intention to challenge the United States or to unseat it. Instead, we will be glad to see a confident, open, ever-growing and prosperous United States. Likewise, the United States should not bet against China, or interfere in China’s internal affairs. It should instead welcome a peaceful, stable and prosperous China.
Win-win cooperation is the trend of the times, and it is also an inherent property of China-U.S. relations. China is pursuing high-quality development, and the United States is revitalizing its economy. There is plenty of room for our cooperation, and we are fully able to help each other succeed and achieve win-win outcomes.
The Belt and Road Initiative as well as the Global Development Initiative (GDI), the Global Security Initiative (GSI) and the Global Civilization Initiative (GCI) proposed by China are open to all countries at all times including the United States. China is also ready to participate in U.S.-proposed multilateral cooperation initiatives. This morning, President Biden and I agreed to promote dialogue and cooperation, in the spirit of mutual respect, in areas including diplomacy, economy and trade, people-to-people exchange, education, science and technology, agriculture, military, law enforcement, and artificial intelligence. We agreed to make the cooperation list longer and the pie of cooperation bigger. I would like to let you know that China sympathizes deeply with the American people, especially the young, for the sufferings that Fentanyl has inflicted upon them. President Biden and I have agreed to set up a working group on counternarcotics to further our cooperation and help the United States tackle drug abuse. I also wish to announce here that to increase exchanges between our peoples, especially between the youth, China is ready to invite 50,000 young Americans to China on exchange and study programs in the next five years.
Recently, the three pandas at Smithsonian’s National Zoo in Washington D.C. have returned to China. I was told that many American people, especially children, were really reluctant to say goodbye to the pandas, and went to the zoo to see them off. I also learned that the San Diego Zoo and the Californians very much look forward to welcoming pandas back. Pandas have long been envoys of friendship between the Chinese and American peoples. We are ready to continue our cooperation with the United States on panda conservation, and do our best to meet the wishes of the Californians so as to deepen the friendly ties between our two peoples.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
China is the largest developing country in the world. The Chinese people long for better jobs, better lives, and better education for their children. It is what the 1.4 billion Chinese hold dear to their hearts. The Communist Party of China (CPC) is committed to working for the people, and our people’s expectation for a better life is our goal. This means we must work hard to secure their support. Thanks to a century of exploration and struggle, we have found the development path that suits us. We are now advancing the rejuvenation of the Chinese nation on all fronts by pursuing Chinese modernization.
We are committed to striving in unity to achieve modernization for all Chinese.
A large population is a fundamental aspect of China’s reality. Our achievements, however great, would be very small when divided by 1.4 billion. But a problem, however small, would be huge when multiplied by 1.4 billion. This is a unique challenge for a country of our size. In the meantime, big also means strength. The leadership of the CPC, the system of socialism with Chinese characteristics, and the endorsement and support of the people are our greatest strengths. China is both a super-large economy and a super-large market. Not long ago the sixth China International Import Expo was held, attracting over 3,400 business exhibitors from 128 countries including the United States. The exhibition area of American companies has been the largest for six consecutive years at the Expo. Modernization for 1.4 billion Chinese is a huge opportunity that China provides to the world.
We are committed to prosperity for all to deliver a better life for each and every Chinese.
To eliminate poverty is the millennia-old dream of the Chinese nation, and prosperity for all is the longing of all Chinese. Before I turned 16, I was in a village in northern Shaanxi Province, where I lived and farmed with villagers, and I knew about their worries and needs. Now half a century on, I always feel confident and strong when staying with the people. Serving the people selflessly and living up to their expectations is my lifelong commitment. When I became General Secretary of the CPC Central Committee and President of the People’s Republic of China, 100 million people were still living below the poverty line set by the United Nations. Thanks to eight years of tenacious efforts, we lifted them all out of poverty. We realized the poverty reduction goal of the U.N. 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development 10 years ahead of schedule. In the process, over 1,800 CPC members lost their lives in the line of duty.
Our goal is not to have just a few wealthy people, but to realize common prosperity for all. Employment, education, medical services, child care, elderly care, housing, the environment and the like are real issues important to people’s daily life and close to their heart. They are being steadily integrated into our top-level plans for national development, thus ever increasing the sense of fulfillment, happiness and security of our people. We will continue to promote high-quality development and deliver the benefits of modernization to all. This is the CPC’s founding mission and the pledge we have made to the people. It will surely be realized with the support of the people.
We are committed to well-rounded development to achieve both material and cultural-ethical advancement for the people.
Our forefathers observed that “When people are well-fed and well-clad, they will have a keen sense of honor and shame.” Material shortage is not socialism, nor is cultural-ethical impoverishment. Chinese modernization is people-centered. An important goal of Chinese modernization is to continue increasing the country’s economic strength and improving the people’s living standards, and at the same time, enriching the people’s cultural lives, enhancing civility throughout society and promoting well-rounded development of the person. The purpose of the Global Civilization Initiative I proposed is to urge the international community to address the imbalance between material and cultural advancement and jointly promote continued progress of human civilization.
We are committed to sustainable development to achieve harmony between man and nature.
The belief that humans are an integral part of nature and need to follow nature’s course is a distinctive feature of traditional Chinese culture. We live in the same global village, and we possibly won’t find another inhabitable planet in our lifetime. As an English saying goes, “We do not inherit the Earth from our ancestors, we borrow it from our children.” When I was Governor of Fujian Province in 2002, I called for turning Fujian into the first ecological province in China. Later when I worked in Zhejiang Province in 2005, I said that clear waters and green mountains are just as valuable as gold and silver. Today, this view has become a consensus of all the Chinese people. China now has close to half of the world’s installed photovoltaic capacity. Over half of the world’s new energy vehicles run on roads in China, and China contributes one-fourth of increased area of afforestation in the world. We will strive to peak carbon dioxide emissions before 2030 and achieve carbon neutrality before 2060. We have made the pledge, and we will honor it.
We are committed to peaceful development to build a community with a shared future for mankind.
Peace, amity and harmony are values embedded in Chinese civilization. Aggression and expansion are not in our genes. The Chinese people have bitter and deep memories of the turmoils and sufferings inflicted upon them in modern times. I often say that what the Chinese people oppose is war, what they want is stability, and what they hope for is enduring world peace. The great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation cannot be achieved without a peaceful and stable international environment. In pursuing modernization, we will never revert to the beaten path of war, colonization, plundering or coercion.
Throughout the 70 years and more since the founding of the People’s Republic, China has not provoked a conflict or war, or occupied a single inch of foreign land. China is the only major country that has written peaceful development into the Constitution of the country and the Constitution of the governing party, thus making peaceful development a commitment of the nation. It benefits from and safeguards the current international order. We remain firm in safeguarding the international system with the U.N. at its core, the international order underpinned by international law, and the basic norms governing international relations based on the purposes and principles of the U.N. Charter. Whatever stage of development it may reach, China will never pursue hegemony or expansion, and will never impose its will on others. China does not seek spheres of influence, and will not fight a cold war or a hot war with anyone. China will remain committed to dialogue and oppose confrontation, and build partnerships instead of alliances. It will continue to pursue a mutually beneficial strategy of opening up. The modernization we are pursuing is not for China alone. We are ready to work with all countries to advance global modernization featuring peaceful development, mutually beneficial cooperation and common prosperity, and to build a community with a shared future for mankind.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
The passage of time is like a surging river—much is washed away, but the most valuable stays. No matter how the global landscape evolves, the historical trend of peaceful coexistence between China and the United States will not change. The ultimate wish of our two peoples for exchanges and cooperation will not change. The expectations of the whole world for a steadily growing China-U.S. relationship will not change. For any great cause to succeed, it must take root in the people, gain strength from the people, and be accomplished by the people. Growing China-U.S. friendship is such a great cause. Let us galvanize the Chinese and American peoples into a strong force to renew China-U.S. friendship, advance China-U.S. relations, and make even greater contributions to world peace and development!"
"Speech by H.E. Li Qiang
Premier of the State Council of the People's Republic of China
At the 22nd Meeting of the Council of Heads of Government of Member States of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization
BISHKEK, October 26, 2023
Your Excellency Prime Minister Akylbek Japarov,
Colleagues,
I am delighted to join you in Bishkek, a prominent city on the ancient Silk Road. At the outset, I wish to thank Prime Minister Japarov and the Kyrgyz government for the meticulous preparations and thoughtful arrangements made for the meeting.
At the SCO Meeting of the Council of Heads of State last July, President Xi Jinping and fellow SCO leaders reached important consensus on promoting the Shanghai Spirit to build an even closer SCO community with a shared future, and identified the priority tasks for achieving the goal. As I see it, the objective of the Meeting of the Council of Heads of Government is to follow up on and deliver the outcomes of the Meeting of the Council of Heads of State. How do we do that? In terms of action, we need to flesh out the tasks and timetable, and implement them one by one. At the conceptual level, we need to develop a clearer understanding of some basic and fundamental questions. Only with a more accurate perception can we take more informed actions. In this connection, I wish to share with you my thoughts on three questions regarding how to better act upon the Shanghai Spirit and implement the consensus of the Meeting of the Council of Heads of State.
The first question is: What brought us together? To answer this question, we need to go back to the starting point of the SCO, in other words, the founding mission or original aspiration of this Organization. We Chinese often say, never forget why you started, and you can accomplish your mission. Twenty-two years ago, the SCO was founded in response to the shared aspiration of regional countries for promoting friendship, safeguarding security and pursuing development. Today, the Organization has grown from the original "Shanghai Five" to nine member states, three observer states, and 14 dialogue partners. SCO member states now account for nearly half of the world's population and about one quarter of the global GDP. The SCO's development is a vivid illustration of the Shanghai Spirit, and a clear example of its strong vitality. To put it plainly, we came together in the firm belief that regional affairs should be discussed and managed together by countries in the region, free from the disturbance, meddling and manipulation of non-regional countries. Such a belief is also reflected in our accommodation toward each other and our autonomy as a whole. In today's turbulent and changing world, it is all the more necessary that we review the founding mission of the SCO. It is where we started our journey, and also a lodestar providing a direction of certainty as we navigate the uncertain times. Only when we remain true to the founding mission and uphold solidarity and coordination can we truly safeguard peace and tranquility and boost development and prosperity in our region, and contribute more certainty and positive energy to world peace and development.
The second question is: What important things can we learn from our journey? By answering this question, we aim to find the key to the success of the SCO so as to gain wisdom and strengths for going even further. Since its inception, the SCO has brought together countries at different development stages and with diverse cultural traditions, and gathered a powerful force for solidarity, cooperation and development. In this process, it has made important explorations in both theories and practice for building a new type of international relations and a community with a shared future for mankind. At the Samarkand Summit last year, President Xi Jinping made a systematic summary of SCO's experience and stressed the importance of upholding political trust, win-win cooperation, equality between nations, openness and inclusiveness, and equity and justice. Our commitment to these five principles is the key to the success and development of the SCO. On our way forward, there are many risks and challenges that require a concerted response from us all. We need to keep abreast of the situation and adapt to the changing circumstances. More importantly, we need to hold onto the principles that enabled our past success, and seek inspirations from them for more effective interactions and more efficient cooperation. This way, we will be able to gather stronger driving force for greater development.
The third question is: How do we get to a better future together? This is a question about how to turn theories into practice, and make a blueprint into a real-life picture. In this process, I believe two things are vitally important. The first is about methodology, that is to keep our eyes on the larger picture and start from concrete steps. We need to act on the vision of a community with a shared future for mankind, and ensure solid progress of our cooperation in all areas of development, security and civilization. The second is about attitude, that is to work toward the same goal and contribute to each other's success. A bright future is never a windfall. Everyone should actively work for it and contribute their share, rather than passively look on or evade their task.
In light of the current international situation and realities of regional countries, I would like to propose the following: First, we need to work together to strengthen the shield of regional security. We need to resolutely resist external interference and oppose camp-based confrontation. We need to improve the SCO's mechanism for tackling security threats and challenges as quickly as possible, and crack down hard on the forces of terrorism, separatism and extremism and transnational organized crimes. Second, we need to work together to speed up economic recovery. We need to jointly develop safe and efficient transportation systems, promote trade and investment liberalization and facilitation, and keep industrial and supply chains stable and smooth. China will continue to increase import of quality products from other SCO member states. Third, we need to work together to advance Belt and Road cooperation. Last week, the Third Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation was successfully held in Beijing. This grand gathering, which was attended by representatives from 151 countries and 41 international organizations, speaks volumes about the great appeal and global influence of the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI). Over the past decade, the BRI has delivered concrete benefits to the world and blazed a path of cooperation, opportunity and prosperity that leads to common development. It has become the most popular global public good and the largest international cooperation platform in our world today. China is ready to work with all parties to further synergize high-quality Belt and Road cooperation with the development strategies of other countries, and push forward the building of important economic corridors. We need to work to establish an SCO development bank to meet the financing and development needs of member states. Fourth, we need to work together to promote mutual understanding and amity between our peoples. We need to continuously deepen cooperation in such areas as education, culture, tourism and sports, and ensure the success of signature programs such as the SCO Forum on People-to-People Friendship. China supports more higher learning institutions in joining the SCO University, proposes the establishment of a China-SCO emergency medical cooperation center, and welcomes more scholars and students to China for study and exchange.
Colleagues,
A famous line from the Kyrgyz epic Manas says that those who work hard will succeed. So let us work even harder to implement the Shanghai Spirit, deepen mutually beneficial cooperation, and create a better life for all our peoples!
Thank you."
"Keynote Speech by H.E. Xi Jinping
President of the People’s Republic of China
At the Opening Ceremony
Of the Third Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation
October 18, 2023
Your Excellencies Heads of State and Government,
Heads of International Organizations,
Representatives of Various Countries,
Distinguished Guests,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
Today, we are meeting here for the opening ceremony of the Third Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation (BRF). On behalf of the Chinese government and Chinese people and in my own name, I wish to extend a very warm welcome to you all!
This year marks the 10th anniversary of the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) I proposed. The BRI, drawing inspiration from the ancient Silk Road and focusing on enhancing connectivity, aims to enhance policy, infrastructure, trade, financial and people-to-people connectivity, inject new impetus into the global economy, create new opportunities for global development, and build a new platform for international economic cooperation.
Over these 10 years, we have stayed committed to this founding mission. Thanks to our joint efforts, Belt and Road international cooperation has gotten off the ground, grown rapidly and produced fruitful outcomes.
Belt and Road cooperation has extended from the Eurasian continent to Africa and Latin America. More than 150 countries and over 30 international organizations have signed Belt and Road cooperation documents. We have held two sessions of the BRF before, and have established over 20 specialized multilateral cooperation platforms under the BRI.
Belt and Road cooperation has progressed from “sketching the outline” to “filling in the details”, and blueprints have been turned into real projects. A large number of signature projects and “small yet smart” people-centered programs have been launched.
Belt and Road cooperation has expanded from physical connectivity to institutional connectivity. Important guiding principles for high-quality Belt and Road cooperation have been laid down, which include the principle of “planning together, building together, and benefiting together,” the philosophy of open, green and clean cooperation, and the goal of pursuing high-standard, people-centered and sustainable cooperation.
Over these 10 years, we have endeavored to build a global network of connectivity consisting of economic corridors, international transportation routes and information highway as well as railways, roads, airports, ports, pipelines and power grids. Covering the land, the ocean, the sky and the Internet, this network has boosted the flow of goods, capital, technologies and human resources among countries involved and injected fresh vitality into the millennia-old Silk Road in the new era.
Trains speeding along rail tracks, automobiles running on roads, flights connecting different countries, cargo ships breaking waves, and e-commerce bringing so much convenience to people—they have all become symbols of international trade in the new era, just like camel caravans and the sailing ships were for the past age.
Hydro, wind and solar energy based power plants, oil and gas pipelines, and the increasingly smart and interconnected power transmission networks are removing the development bottleneck caused by energy shortage and fulfilling the dream of developing countries to achieve green and low-carbon development. These energy projects have become the oasis and lighthouse for sustainable development in the new era.
Brand new airports and harbors, smooth roads, and newly built industrial parks for business cooperation have created new economic corridors and new growth drivers, and have become the trading routes and staging posts of the new era.
Rich and colorful cultural years, art festivals, expos and exhibitions, Luban Workshops, people-to-people exchange programs like the Silk Road Community Building Initiative and the Brightness Action program, and deepening exchanges between non-governmental organizations, think tanks, media organizations, and the youth—all these flourishing activities have composed a symphony of friendship in the new era.
When COVID-19 struck, the Belt and Road became a life-saving road. China provided more than 10 billion masks and 2.3 billion doses of vaccines to other countries and jointly produced vaccines with over 20 countries, making a special contribution to BRI partners’ efforts in fighting COVID-19. And China also received valuable support from more than 70 countries when it was hit hard by the pandemic.
Belt and Road cooperation is based on the principle of “planning together, building together, and benefiting together.” It transcends differences between civilizations, cultures, social systems, and stages of development. It has opened up a new path for exchanges among countries, and established a new framework for international cooperation. Indeed, the BRI represents humanity’s joint pursuit of development for all.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
Our achievements in the past decade are truly remarkable, and there is so much we can draw from them.
We have learned that humankind is a community with a shared future. China can only do well when the world is doing well. When China does well, the world will get even better. Through Belt and Road cooperation, China is opening its door even wider to the world, with its inland regions turning from “fullbacks” into “forwards,” and coastal regions scaling new heights in their opening-up. China’s market has become even more closely integrated with the global market. China has become a main trading partner of more than 140 countries and territories and a primary source of investment for more countries. Both Chinese investment overseas and foreign investment in China have boosted friendship, cooperation, confidence and hope.
We have learned that win-win cooperation is the sure way to success in launching major initiatives that benefit all. When countries embrace cooperation and act in concert, a deep chasm can be turned into a thoroughfare, land-locked countries can become land-linked, and a place of underdevelopment can be transformed into a land of prosperity. Countries taking the lead in economic development should give a hand to their partners who are yet to catch up. We should all treat each other as friends and partners, respect and support each other, and help each other succeed. As the saying goes, when you give roses to others, their fragrance lingers on your hand. In other words, helping others is also helping oneself. Viewing others’ development as a threat or taking economic interdependence as a risk will not make one’s own life better or speed up one’s development.
We have learned that the Silk Road spirit of peace and cooperation, openness and inclusiveness, mutual learning and mutual benefit is the most important source of strength for Belt and Road cooperation. I once said that the pioneers of the ancient silk routes won their place in history not as conquerors with warships, guns, horses or swords. Rather, they are remembered as friendly emissaries leading camel caravans and sailing ships loaded with goods. Belt and Road cooperation is based on the belief that flame runs high when everyone adds wood to the fire and that mutual support can get us far. Such cooperation seeks to deliver a good life not only to people of just one country, but to people in other countries as well. It promotes connectivity, mutual benefit, common development, cooperation and win-win outcomes. Ideological confrontation, geopolitical rivalry and bloc politics are not a choice for us. What we stand against are unilateral sanctions, economic coercion and decoupling and supply chain disruption.
What has been achieved in the past 10 years demonstrates that Belt and Road cooperation is on the right side of history. It represents the advancing of our times, and it is the right path forward. We need to remain clear-eyed and undisturbed in a volatile world, and we need to be keenly aware of our responsibility for history, for the people and for the world. We should jointly address various global risks and challenges, and deliver a bright future of peace, development, cooperation and mutual benefit for future generations.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
Changes of the world, of our times, and of historical significance are unfolding like never before. China is endeavoring to build itself into a stronger country and rejuvenate the Chinese nation on all fronts by pursuing Chinese modernization. The modernization we are pursuing is not for China alone, but for all developing countries through our joint efforts. Global modernization should be pursued to enhance peaceful development and mutually beneficial cooperation and bring prosperity to all. On our way forward, we will encounter both headwinds and tailwinds. We need to stay focused on our goal, take results-oriented actions, persevere, and keep moving forward until our goal is met. China will work with all parties involved to deepen Belt and Road partnerships of cooperation, usher this cooperation into a new stage of high-quality development, and make relentless efforts to achieve modernization for all countries.
Now, I wish to announce eight major steps China will take to support our joint pursuit of high-quality Belt and Road cooperation.
First, building a multidimensional Belt and Road connectivity network.
China will speed up high-quality development of the China-Europe Railway Express, participate in the trans-Caspian international transportation corridor, host the China-Europe Railway Express Cooperation Forum, and make joint efforts to build a new logistics corridor across the Eurasian continent linked by direct railway and road transportation. We will vigorously integrate ports, shipping and trading services under the “Silk Road Maritime,” and accelerate the building of the New International Land-Sea Trade Corridor and the Air Silk Road.
Second, supporting an open world economy.
China will establish pilot zones for Silk Road e-commerce cooperation, enter into free trade agreements and investment protection treaties with more countries. We will remove all restrictions on foreign investment access in the manufacturing sector. In light of international high-standard economic and trade rules, we will further advance high-standard opening up in cross-border service trade and investment, expand market access for digital and other products, and deepen reform in areas including the state-owned enterprises, digital economy, intellectual property and government procurement. China will hold the Global Digital Trade Expo annually. In the next five years (2024-2028), China’s total trade in goods and services is expected to exceed USD 32 trillion and USD 5 trillion respectively.
Third, carrying out practical cooperation.
China will promote both signature projects and “small yet smart” livelihood programs. The China Development Bank and the Export-Import Bank of China will each set up a RMB 350 billion financing window. An additional RMB 80 billion will be injected into the Silk Road Fund. Together, they will support BRI projects on the basis of market and business operation. Cooperation agreements worth USD 97.2 billion have been concluded at the CEO Conference held during this Forum. China will carry out 1,000 small-scale livelihood assistance projects, and enhance vocational education cooperation through Luban Workshops and other initiatives. We will also step up joint efforts to ensure the safety of BRI projects and personnel.
Fourth, promoting green development.
China will continue to deepen cooperation in areas such as green infrastructure, green energy and green transportation, and step up support for the BRI International Green Development Coalition. China will continue to hold the BRI Green Innovation Conference, and establish dialogue and exchange mechanisms for the solar industry and a network of experts on green and low-carbon development. China will implement the Green Investment Principles for the Belt and Road, and provide 100,000 training opportunities for partner countries by 2030.
Fifth, advancing scientific and technological innovation.
China will continue to implement the Belt and Road Science, Technology and Innovation Cooperation Action Plan, hold the first Belt and Road Conference on Science and Technology Exchange, increase the number of joint laboratories built with other parties to 100 in the next five years, and support young scientists from other countries to work on short-term programs in China. At this Forum, China will put forward the Global Initiative for Artificial Intelligence (AI) Governance. We stand ready to increase exchanges and dialogue with other countries and jointly promote the sound, orderly and secure AI development in the world.
Sixth, supporting people-to-people exchanges.
China will host the Liangzhu Forum to enhance dialogue on civilizations with BRI partner countries. In addition to the Silk Road International League of Theaters, the Silk Road International Arts Festival, the International Alliance of Museums of the Silk Road, the Silk Road International Alliance of Art Museums, and the Silk Road International Library Alliance that have been set up, China has also launched the International Tourism Alliance of Silk Road Cities. And we will continue with the Chinese government scholarship Silk Road Program.
Seventh, promoting integrity-based Belt and Road cooperation.
Together with its cooperation partners, China will release the Achievements and Prospects of Belt and Road Integrity Building and the High-Level Principles on Belt and Road Integrity Building, and establish the Integrity and Compliance Evaluation System for Companies Involved in Belt and Road Cooperation. We will also work with international organizations to carry out research and training on promoting integrity in Belt and Road cooperation.
Eighth, strengthening institutional building for international Belt and Road cooperation.
China will work with its BRI partner countries to strengthen the building of multilateral cooperation platforms covering energy, taxation, finance, green development, disaster reduction, anti-corruption, think tank, media, culture and other fields. China will continue to host the BRF and establish a secretariat for the Forum.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
The past decade has been a journey of dedicated cooperation and fruitful outcomes. Belt and Road cooperation was proposed by China, but its benefits and opportunities are for the world to share. Let us meet the expectations of the people, assume responsibilities entrusted on us by history, closely follow the trend of the times, and press ahead with energy and enterprise. Let us deepen Belt and Road international cooperation, and bring Belt and Road cooperation to a new stage of higher-quality and higher-level development. Let us advance modernization of all countries, build an open, inclusive and interconnected world for common development, and jointly build a community with a shared future for mankind.
I wish the Third Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation a full success!
Thank you."
"Beijing, October 17, 2023
Your Excellencies Heads of State and Government,
Your Excellencies Heads of International Organizations,
Distinguished Representatives,
Distinguished Guests,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
Good evening.
It is a great pleasure to meet and gather with so many friends. On behalf of the Chinese government and people and in the name of myself and my wife, I wish to extend a warm welcome to all distinguished guests attending the Third Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation.
Spring is a season of blossoming, and autumn is a time of harvest. Over the past decade since the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) was proposed, China and BRI partners have worked hand in hand and exemplified the Silk Road spirit, which is characterized by peace and cooperation, openness and inclusiveness, mutual learning and mutual benefit. Together we have contributed to global connectivity and created platforms for international economic cooperation. Together we have been a driving force for global growth.
Together we have carried out thousands of cooperation projects with solid deliverables. Together we have written a magnificent chapter in promoting a connected world and charting a path for all to prosper individually and collectively. None of these achievements simply fell into our laps, or were granted by anyone. They have been made possible by the governments, businesses and people of BRI partners through hard work, wisdom and courage. Let us take this opportunity to salute all those who have participated in and contributed to Belt and Road cooperation.
The BRI pursues development, promotes win-win outcomes, and inspires hope. Human history shows that a bumper harvest would not be possible without an untiring spirit and unremitting efforts, and the same is true of sustainable achievements that benefit our posterity. This is the responsibility that we, political leaders of this generation, must fulfill toward the people of today and future generations. Belt and Road cooperation, robust and fruitful in its first decade, is now full of dynamism and vitality. We must embark with drive and enthusiasm on the new journey toward another golden decade.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
The world today is far from tranquil. The world economy is under growing downward pressure. Global development is confronted with multiple challenges. That said, we remain unwavering in our belief that the historical trend of peace, development, cooperation and mutual benefit is unstoppable, our people’s aspiration for a better life remains strong as ever, and the desire of all countries to achieve common development and prosperity is overwhelming. As long as we remain steadfast in our commitment to cooperation and common development, we will accomplish new feats in high-quality Belt and Road cooperation that reflect the spirit of the times and will create a better future for humanity through our joint efforts.
Now, I would like to propose a toast,
To the full success of the Third Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation;
To the health of all our guests and your families; and
To each and every one of those who have participated in and contributed to Belt and Road cooperation.
Cheers."
"Hangzhou, September 23, 2023
Distinguished Colleagues,
Distinguished OCA Acting President Raja Randhir Singh,
Distinguished IOC President Thomas Bach,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
I am delighted to join so many old and new friends by the beautiful West Lake celebrating the opening of the 19th Asian Games. At the outset, on behalf of the Chinese government and people, and in the name of my wife and myself, I would like to extend a warm welcome to all our distinguished guests!
Today is the Autumn Equinox, known as Qiufen on the Chinese lunar calender. On this day of harvest and reunion, the cauldron of the Asian Games will light up again in China. Since being honored with the right to host the Games, China has earnestly fulfilled its commitments and made every effort for its preparation. We look forward to working closely together with the Olympic Council of Asia (OCA) and delegations from all countries and regions to deliver to the world a great event that is distinctly Chinese, uniquely Asian and spectacular and to make new contribution to the Olympic Movement in Asia and the world.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
The Asian Games embodies the Asian people’s shared desire for peace, unity and inclusiveness.
Over decades, Asia has enjoyed overall stability as well as sustained rapid economic growth, creating the Asian Miracle that is incomparable across the world. The Asian Games has not only been a witness to this achievement, but also a participant and a contributor. As a community with a shared future connected by mountains and rivers as well as cultural affinity, we should use sports to promote peace, pursue good neighborliness and mutual benefit, and reject Cold War mentality and bloc confrontation. We should make Asia an anchor of world peace.
The 19th Asian Games has set a new record in the numbers of registered athletes and events, reflecting the great expectations and firm support of the Asian people for the Hangzhou Games. As humanity faces unprecedented global challenges, we should use sports to promote unity, seize the historic opportunity, and jointly stand up to the challenges. We should honor the OCA motto of “Ever Onward,” and open up broader prospects for the Asian road toward common development, openness and integration.
As an important birthplace of human civilization, Asia has fostered splendid cultures. The 19th Asian Games has included many disciplines with distinctive Asian features. It provides a platform to celebrate sports and culture, and showcases Asian culture that is inclusive, vibrant and always keen to learn from others. We should use sports to promote inclusiveness, enhance confidence in our civilizations, pursue exchanges and mutual learning, and renew the glory of Asian civilizations.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
For centuries, Hangzhou has been known for its breathtaking natural beauty, rich endowment and a thriving cultural life. Marco Polo described it as “the City of Heaven, the finest and the noblest in the world.” I once worked in Zhejiang Province for quite a few years. Committed to reform and opening up, the Province is now fast-tracking toward high-quality development. It is building a demonstration zone for common prosperity, and has become a pioneer in Chinese modernization. I wish you all an unforgettable experience in the picturesque Zhejiang and a fond memory by the flames of the Asian Games.
Now, I would like to propose a toast,
To the success of the 19th Asian Games,
To the advancement of the Olympic Movement,
To the unity and friendship of the Asian people, and
To the health of all distinguished guests and your families.
Cheers!"
"Jakarta, September 6, 2023
Your Excellency President Joko Widodo,
Colleagues,
It is my great pleasure to join friends old and new at the ASEAN Plus China, Japan, ROK (APT) Summit. I wish to thank President Joko Widodo and the Indonesian government for the thoughtful arrangements made for this meeting.
Since its inception over two decades ago as a response to the Asian Financial Crisis, the APT cooperation framework has weathered the tests of the Global Financial Crisis and the COVID-19 pandemic, and played an important role in driving regional progress and prosperity. We Chinese often say, “Just as a fence needs the support of three stakes, even an able fellow needs the help of three friends.” The more difficult the situation, the greater the need for solidarity and cooperation. A review of the many multilateral cooperation mechanisms in the world would reveal that they are all essentially about creating and expanding networks of friends. In these networks, there are both next-door neighbors and partners further afield. Then comes the question: what principles should we go by as we make friends, choose partners and live with neighbors in these mechanisms? As President Xi Jinping noted, one can find partners in both those who share the same ideals and those who choose common ground over differences.
In our engagement and interaction, a key principle is to seek common ground while reserving and resolving differences.
To seek common ground, we must first acknowledge our commonalities. For APT countries and indeed all countries in Asia, there are so many things we share in common.
First, we share a common home.
We are connected by shared mountains and rivers, bound by similar cultures and traditions. These underlying commonalities are the reason behind our time-honored history of friendly ties. In this common home, we all gain from its peace and prosperity, and suffer in the event of upheavals and chaos.
Second, we share common interests.
We all played our part in creating the Asian Miracle of economic growth. In the past 10 years, the combined GDP of APT countries as a share of the global economy increased from 24.7 percent to 27.6 percent. We are each other’s important economic and trade partners, and our industrial and supply chains are deeply integrated. If we can continue to enhance openness and cooperation, we will surely forge an epicentrum of global growth.
Third, we share common opportunities.
We are each other’s opportunities, and can inject strong impetus into global development. The Chinese economy is now on track to realize the annual growth target of around 5 percent. More importantly, China is advancing high-quality development and Chinese modernization on all fronts. The Chinese economy enjoys bright prospects, and will continue to generate fresh and greater opportunities for the region and the rest of the world.
While we remain steadfast in seeking common ground based on the commonalities, we shall have nothing to fear about the differences, and will be able to find the right way to resolve them. Disagreements and disputes may arise between countries due to misperceptions, diverging interests or external interferences. Whatever the cause, it is vital to face the issues squarely, remove misunderstandings and keep the differences in check. Facing up to the problems is the prerequisite for finding solutions, whereas an ostrich policy would only make things worse. The most effective way to clear up misunderstandings is to strengthen exchanges, and increase mutual understanding and trust through sincere communication. To keep differences under control, what is essential now is to oppose picking sides, bloc confrontation and a new Cold War, and ensure that disagreements and disputes among countries are properly handled.
Our meeting and discussion are actually a concrete action in seeking common ground and resolving differences. We need to bear in mind the larger interest of peace and development in East Asia, approach the commonalities and differences between countries in the right way, and make the foundation of APT cooperation even stronger. We should work in concert to meet various types of risks and challenges, promote development, prosperity and stability of our region, and build an Asian community with a shared future.
Colleagues,
Our world has entered a new stage of turbulence and transformation. We are faced with growing challenges from slower growth, climate change and geopolitical disruptions. Differences and disputes between countries are being magnified, intended or otherwise. Global development endeavors are under severe strain. These circumstances make it all the more necessary that we seek common ground while reserving and resolving differences. We need to prioritize development in regional cooperation, remove the various disruptions, further unlock cooperation potential, and explore a path for more robust and vibrant development that delivers for all. This year, we have begun to implement the new APT Cooperation Work Plan. China hopes to work with all parties to seize this opportunity, and build an epicentrum of growth with a focus on the following three priorities:
First, we should continue advancing regional economic integration.
In recent years, the trade volumes of APT countries have kept hitting new highs, and nearly half of the trade is intra-regional. Our economic and trade ties are growing ever closer. In June this year, the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) entered into full effect, which brought new opportunities for regional economic integration. We need to further bring out the potential of the agreement, boost the free flow of factors, and expand and upgrade our trade and investment. We need to advance our comprehensive, mutually beneficial and high-quality economic partnership, and move toward an integrated regional market that is more open and vibrant. The Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of China is widely regarded as one of the world’s most open economies, and is an important trade and investment partner of RCEP members. We hope that you will support Hong Kong in becoming one of the first economies to join the agreement.
Second, we should continue deepening industrial specialization and collaboration in the region.
Over the past 50-plus years, we have seen continued integration and extension of industrial and supply chains in East Asia. Such development is guided by market principles and anchored on comparative strengths. We all have reaped the development dividends of industrial specialization and collaboration. Attempts to decouple or sever supply chains go against the laws of economics and the trend of history. The narrative about “de-risking” is essentially mixing trade and economic cooperation with politics and security, which would end up in a lose-lose situation. APT countries should stay committed to openness and win-win cooperation, continue harnessing our strengths of geographical proximity and economic complementarity, optimize and upgrade regional industrial and supply chains while keeping them stable and smooth, and work together to boost the economic competitiveness of East Asia. China proposes to hold the APT Forum for Cooperation on Industrial and Supply Chains and a seminar under the theme of “Digits Energize Supply Chain” next year, to build a more stable and smooth regional industrial and supply chain system based on comparative strengths.
Third, we should continue strengthening the steering and catalytic role of science, technology and innovation.
In today’s world where technology is advancing by leaps and bounds, innovation is critical for achieving development and securing the future. China is stepping up efforts to synergize industrial innovation with technological innovation, and accelerate the development of a modernized industrial system. This will provide regional countries with new opportunities of cooperation in new areas and new arenas. China is ready to deepen innovation cooperation with all parties in such fields as the digital economy, clean energy and new energy vehicles, to boost the emerging industries and foster more new drivers of growth. China supports issuing the ASEAN Plus Three Leaders’ Statement on Developing of an Electric Vehicle Ecosystem at this summit, and hopes to enhance practical cooperation with all parties to sharpen the region’s overall competitive edge in electric vehicles. The handling of the nuclear contaminated water concerns the global marine ecological environment and people’s health. Japan should faithfully fulfill its international obligations, have full consultations with its neighbors and other stakeholders, and deal with the nuclear contaminated water in a responsible manner.
APT countries are all members of the same East Asian family. China will join hands with all countries to create an even better future of East Asia.
Thank you."
"Jakarta, September 6, 2023
Your Excellency President Joko Widodo,
Colleagues,
It is my great pleasure to gather with you in Jakarta. I wish to thank President Joko Widodo and the Indonesian government for the meticulous preparations and thoughtful arrangements made for the meeting. I welcome Prime Minister Xanana Gusmão of Timor-Leste to the meeting as ASEAN observer, and look forward to in-depth exchanges with friends both old and new.
In 2013, it was also in Indonesia that President Xi Jinping proposed building a closer China-ASEAN community with a shared future. Over the past ten years, China and ASEAN have forged ahead hand in hand and contributed to each other’s successes. Facing great changes unseen in a century, we have embarked on a right path featuring longstanding good-neighborliness and shared progress and prosperity. China has remained the world’s second biggest economy, and ASEAN’s combined GDP has become the fifth largest in the world. Our joint efforts are fully reflected in the following four areas:
First, we have been committed to treating each other with sincerity, and our political mutual trust has grown deeper.
Sincerity is the key that opens the heart, and trust is the bridge that connects the minds. No matter how the international situation evolves, China and ASEAN have maintained close exchanges, respected each other’s development paths and accommodated each other’s major concerns. China was the first country to establish a strategic partnership with ASEAN, and took the lead to elevate the relationship to a comprehensive strategic partnership in 2021, a strong testament to the strategic trust between our two sides. China has reached important consensus separately with six ASEAN countries on building a community with a shared future, and hopes to do so with more countries in the future.
Second, we have been committed to mutual assistance, and our good-neighborly friendship has become stronger.
China and ASEAN countries enjoy geographical proximity and close affinity. We have adhered to the Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence and the purpose of the Treaty of Amity and Cooperation in Southeast Asia (TAC). We seek common ground while setting aside differences, properly handle disagreements through dialogue and consultation, and consistently deepen practical cooperation in the traditional and non-traditional security fields. We have preserved peace and tranquility in East Asia in a world fraught with turbulence and change. In particular, we confronted the COVID-19 challenge by coming to each other’s aid in those difficult times, a reflection of our brotherly ties in face of adversity with concrete actions.
Third, we have been committed to mutual benefit, and our win-win cooperation has been more productive.
China and ASEAN see each other’s development as important opportunities, and have kept markets open to each other. Last year, our two-way trade reached over USD 970 billion, more than doubling the volume a decade ago. We have been each other’s top trading partners for three years running. In 2021, at the Special Summit to Commemorate the 30th Anniversary of China-ASEAN Dialogue Relations, President Xi Jinping said that China will buy up to USD 150 billion worth of agricultural products from ASEAN in the next five years. To date, over USD 55 billion worth of these products have been imported, faster than expected. We have reached full consensus on regional connectivity, delivered a steady stream of signature outcomes in high-quality Belt and Road cooperation, and made solid progress in building the new International Land-Sea Trade Corridor. All this has brought new development opportunities for both sides.
Fourth, we have been committed to coordination and inclusiveness, and our common development has become more sustainable.
Both Chinese and Southeast Asian cultures value harmony between man and nature. Following the philosophy of green, low-carbon and sustainable development, we have fostered new cooperation highlights in climate action, environmental protection, energy transition and poverty reduction. The China-ASEAN Year of Sustainable Development Cooperation was held in the past two consecutive years. China’s Global Development Initiative (GDI) and the ASEAN Community Vision 2025 echo and reinforce each other, and the GDI has been widely recognized and welcomed by ASEAN countries.
Our cooperation has come a long way. The key reason is that we both have a keen understanding about hardships, a relentless pursuit of peace, a strong aspiration for development, and take real actions to preserve regional stability. Whatever storm may come, as long as we keep to the right path, China-ASEAN cooperation will be as firm as ever and press ahead against all odds, and we each will achieve greater development and progress in the course of such cooperation.
Colleagues,
The global economic recovery is yet to take hold; global trade and investment remain sluggish; and economic growth in various countries is under considerable pressure. This year’s theme “ASEAN Matters: Epicentrum of Growth” demonstrates a sense of confidence and responsibility. We need to expand consensus for cooperation, enhance the synergy of our development strategies, and pursue a higher level of economic integration and interconnected development. These efforts will provide greater momentum to building a closer China-ASEAN community with a shared future and bring more certainty and positive energy to the peace, stability and sustained prosperity in the Asia-Pacific. To be specific, I suggest that we work together to:
First, jointly build an epicentrum of growth.
Market is a rare resource in today’s world. China and ASEAN have a combined population of over two billion. If we could work together to develop and preserve this super-sized market, we would unlock enormous potential for economic growth. We need to enhance connectivity, deepen cooperation on industrial and supply chains, strive to complete in 2024 the negotiations on the China-ASEAN Free Trade Agreement (ACFTA) 3.0, and steadily advance regional economic integration. China will promote mutually beneficial cooperation between the Belt and Road Initiative and the ASEAN Outlook on the Indo-Pacific (AOIP), and welcome the active participation of ASEAN countries in the third Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation. China supports the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area and the Hainan Free Trade Port in leveraging their unique locations and policy incentives to open new growth areas of cooperation with ASEAN. We will work with ASEAN to make the 20th China-ASEAN Expo a success.
Second, jointly pursue cooperation in emerging industries.
A new round of scientific and technological revolution and industrial transformation is gaining steam, and leading to profound adjustments in the global innovation landscape and economic structure. China will work with ASEAN countries to seize the opportunities of transformation, strengthen cooperation on science, technology and innovation, and accelerate the upgrade of traditional industries and development of emerging industries to release greater dynamism for innovation and foster new growth drivers and competitive edge. China will provide at least USD 10 million by 2025 to support the implementation of the Joint Initiative on Advancing the China-ASEAN Science, Technology and Innovation Enhancing Program to be released at this summit. China hopes to launch a ministerial dialogue on industry with ASEAN, and step up our cooperation on new energy vehicles and photovoltaics. China will continue to hold the Artificial Intelligence Cooperation Forum and will ensure the success of the first China-ASEAN Clean Energy Week. We welcome the active participation of ASEAN countries in these events.
Third, jointly safeguard regional peace and tranquility.
For China and ASEAN to achieve greater development, we need to, first and foremost, safeguard peace in our region and create a favorable environment for development. China hopes to work with ASEAN to facilitate the implementation of the Global Security Initiative (GSI), keep our development and cooperation away from the erosion and impact of a new Cold War or zero-sum mentality, and meet the various traditional and non-traditional security challenges with combined efforts. China remains steadfast in pursuing peaceful development and is ready to work actively with ASEAN countries to advance the text-based COC consultations, to provide institutional safeguard for making the South China Sea a sea of peace, friendship and cooperation. China supports the implementation of the China-ASEAN Work Plan on Cooperation in the Field of Non-Traditional Security Issues (2024—2028) and cooperation in fighting telecom and cyber fraud and illegal online gambling.
Fourth, jointly expand people-to-people exchanges.
China hopes to work with ASEAN to further cement the public support for our relations and implement the Global Civilization Initiative (GCI). We can take the China-ASEAN Year of People-to-People Exchanges next year as an opportunity to further increase exchanges in culture, tourism, training and among the youth to deepen our cultural and people-to-people bonds. In the coming three years, China will build 10 China-ASEAN Institutes of Modern Craftsmanship in ASEAN countries, continue to run the “Bridge of the Future” Young Leaders Training Campus, and launch the “Plan of Training for 10,000” to train for ASEAN countries 10,000 professionals in governance, anti-corruption and green development.
As a Chinese saying goes, “One needs good companions to travel with and good neighbors to live with.” China and ASEAN are good neighbors, good brothers and good partners, and will remain so no matter what. Upholding unity for strength and the spirit of win-win cooperation, China will work with ASEAN countries to set the pace for modernization in Asia and build a peaceful, safe and secure, prosperous, beautiful and amicable home that we share together.
Thank you."
"Keynote Speech by H.E. Xi Jinping
President of the People’s Republic of China
At China-Africa Leaders’ Dialogue
Johannesburg, August 24, 2023
Your Excellency President Matamela Cyril Ramaphosa,
Your Excellencies Heads of State,
Colleagues,
It is a great pleasure to co-chair with President Ramaphosa the China-Africa Leaders’ Dialogue. I feel a particular warmth seeing my African friends face to face after five years, to celebrate our friendship and chart the way forward for our cooperation. I wish to thank all the colleagues for attending the dialogue, and send sincere greetings to leaders of other African countries who are not with us today.
Africa is a fertile land of hope in the 21st century. This is my 10th visit to the continent. Each time, I feel the new development and changes in Africa. As the Organization of African Unity marks its 60th anniversary this year, I wish to convey heartfelt congratulations to you all and to the African people.
Over the past 60 years, under the banner of Pan-Africanism, African countries have made big strides on the path of independence, seeking strength through unity and integration. You have demonstrated the strength of Africa in the struggles to uphold multilateralism and the common interests of developing countries. With steady progress under Agenda 2063 of the African Union (AU), the official launch of the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA), and growing coordination among the subregional groups, Africa is becoming an important pole with global influence.
In 2013 after I became Chinese President, I was here in Africa for my first foreign visit and announced the principle of sincerity, real results, amity and good faith for China’s Africa policy. Over the past 10 years, China has stayed committed to this principle. Together with our African friends and drawing strength from the spirit of China-Africa friendship and cooperation, we have pressed ahead on the path of solidarity and cooperation, stood for justice amid shifting global dynamics, and looked out for each other in face of the COVID-19 pandemic. We have taken China-Africa relations to new heights and entered the new stage of jointly building a high-level China-Africa community with a shared future.
Colleagues,
China is marching toward the Second Centenary Goal of building itself into a great modern socialist country in all respects that is prosperous, strong, democratic, culturally advanced, harmonious and beautiful when the People’s Republic marks its centenary. We are pursuing the great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation on all fronts through a Chinese path to modernization. Africa is moving at an accelerated speed toward the bright prospects envisioned in Agenda 2063, and making all-out efforts to build a new Africa that enjoys peace, unity, prosperity and strength. China and Africa must work together to create a sound environment for realizing our respective development visions.
—Working together to promote a just and equitable international order.
We should carry forward the spirit of sticking together in times of adversity, practice true multilateralism, and unequivocally oppose vestiges of colonialism and hegemonism in all forms. We should firmly support each other in defending core interests, stand strong by the just calls of developing countries, and work for a more just and equitable international order.
—Working together to safeguard a peaceful and secure global environment.
Africa is working unremittingly for the goal of silencing the guns. China is ready to work with Africa to implement the new vision of common, comprehensive, cooperative and sustainable security, advocate the resolution of differences and disputes through dialogue and cooperation, facilitate the political settlement of international and regional hotspot issues, and safeguard world peace and stability. We should uphold harmonious coexistence between man and nature, and protect the security of the global eco-environment.
—Working together to build an open and inclusive world economy.
What we need is to remove barriers rather than erect walls, open up rather than close off. We should carry out extensive consultation and make joint contribution for shared benefit, reject the winner-takes-all approach, and build an open world economy where developing countries are better involved in the international division of labor and share the fruits of economic globalization. We should overcome estrangement between civilizations through exchanges, promote inclusiveness and mutual learning between civilizations, and make new contributions to human progress.
Colleagues,
There are various paths leading to modernization. The African people have the most say on which path suits Africa best. Advancing modernization through integration is the independent choice made by African countries and people. On this path to modernization, China has all along been a firm supporter, and walking side by side with Africa. Over the years, China has helped Africa build a large amount of connectivity infrastructure, carried out extensive cooperation with the AU and subregional organizations, and assisted the construction of several signature Pan-African projects, including the AU Conference Center and the Africa Center for Disease Control and Prevention.
Looking ahead,
China will work with Africa to enhance the synergy of our development strategies.
Through Belt and Road cooperation and the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC), and in light of Agenda 2063, China will intensify dialogue and communication with Africa at various levels, and support the African agencies for integration, including the AfCFTA Secretariat, the Pan-African Payment and Settlement System and the African Union of Broadcasting, among others, in creating cooperation mechanisms with China.
China will continue to support Africa in speaking with one voice on international affairs and continuously elevating its international standing.
China will work actively at the G20 Summit next month to support the AU’s full membership in the group. China supports making special arrangements on the U.N. Security Council reform to meet Africa’s aspiration as a priority. China will call on multilateral financial institutions to enhance the say of African countries.
To chart the course for our practical cooperation in the next stage and help Africa bring its integration and modernization into a fast track, I wish to make the following three proposals:
—China will launch the Initiative on Supporting Africa’s Industrialization.
China will better harness its resources for cooperation with Africa and the initiative of businesses to support Africa in growing its manufacturing sector and realizing industrialization and economic diversification. In implementing the nine programs under the FOCAC framework, China will channel more resources of assistance, investment and financing toward programs for industrialization.
—China will launch the Plan for China Supporting Africa’s Agricultural Modernization.
China will help Africa expand grain plantation, encourage Chinese companies to increase agricultural investment in Africa, and enhance cooperation with Africa on seed and other areas of agro-technology, to support Africa in transforming and upgrading its agricultural sector. China will host the second Forum on China-Africa Cooperation in Agriculture in Hainan this November.
To help Africa tackle the current food crisis, China will provide additional emergency food assistance to African countries in need. More importantly, China has confidence that Africa will attain food self-sufficiency through its own efforts.
—China will launch the Plan for China-Africa Cooperation on Talent Development.
China plans to train 500 principals and high-caliber teachers of vocational colleges every year, and 10,000 technical personnel with both Chinese language and vocational skills for Africa. China will invite 20,000 government officials and technicians of African countries to participate in workshops and seminars. To support Africa in strengthening education and innovation, we will launch the China-Africa Universities 100 Cooperation Plan and 10 pilot exchange programs of China-Africa partner institutes.
Colleagues,
The world today is undergoing transformation and turmoil, and changes unseen in a century are unfolding at a faster pace. At this point of history, we all face the tasks of how to address the deficit in development, overcome security challenges and enhance mutual learning between civilizations. In view of this, I have put forward the Global Development Initiative, the Global Security Initiative and the Global Civilization Initiative, called for peace, development, cooperation and mutual benefit, and advocated building a community with a shared future for mankind. These proposals have received the extensive support of African countries. China and Africa, through our creative explorations for modernization, are giving our answers to the questions of our times, and making joint efforts to advance the great endeavors of win-win cooperation, harmonious coexistence and shared prosperity of civilizations.
Next year, China will host the FOCAC meeting, where we may come together again and draw up new plans for our development. It is a big gathering that both sides are looking forward to. I am confident that China and Africa will carry forward the traditional friendship, enhance solidarity and coordination, and bolster our cooperation across the board. As we join hands to advance modernization, we will deliver a better future for the Chinese and African people, and set a fine example in the building of a community with a shared future for mankind.
Thank you."
"Remarks by H.E. Xi Jinping
President of the People’s Republic of China
At the BRICS-Africa Outreach and BRICS Plus Dialogue
Johannesburg, August 24, 2023
Your Excellency President Matamela Cyril Ramaphosa,
Colleagues,
Let me begin by thanking President Ramaphosa for preparing the Dialogues. I am delighted to join you all in this discussion on global development.
Development embodies our people’s aspiration for a better life. It is the top priority for developing countries and a timeless theme for humanity. As the U.N. 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development is due for a midterm review this year, the delivery of most Sustainable Development Goals remains slow. This is a cause for concern, and the global development endeavor faces formidable challenges.
The international community must pursue the larger interests of all countries, respond to people’s concerns, and restore development to the center of the international agenda. The representation and voice of developing countries in global governance should be increased, and developing countries be supported in realizing better development. It is also important to uphold true multilateralism, forge a global development partnership, and create a secure and stable international environment for shared development.
Colleagues,
China has invariably stood in solidarity with fellow developing countries through thick and thin. China has been and will always remain a member of developing countries. I proposed the Global Development Initiative (GDI), precisely for the purpose of calling on the world to stay focused on development and lending impetus to the implementation of the 2030 Agenda. Last year, China held the first High-Level Dialogue on Global Development where a host of measures for development cooperation were unveiled. Encouraging progress has been made since then.
—We have put development first and allocated more resources.
China has set up a Global Development and South-South Cooperation Fund with a total funding of USD 4 billion, and Chinese financial institutions will soon set up a special fund of USD 10 billion dedicated to the implementation of the GDI.
—We have taken results-oriented actions and deepened practical cooperation.
From Asia to Africa, from Pacific island countries to the Caribbean, over 200 cooperation projects have come to fruition, and cooperation mechanisms are growing in areas such as poverty reduction, education and health.
—We have unleashed the power of innovation and built up momentum for development.
Under the GDI, we have prioritized green development, new-type industrialization, the digital economy and some other key areas, and pursued a Partnership on New Industrial Revolution to boost high-quality development.
—We have tided over difficulties together and made development more resilient.
Food and energy security bear on the economy of a country and the well-being of its people. We have launched a China-FAO South-South Cooperation Trust Fund, implemented the Food Production Enhancement Action, and provided food assistance to and shared agrotech with many countries. We have also initiated a Global Clean Energy Cooperation Partnership with a view to achieving energy security.
China is a friend that Africa can count on. Over the past decade, China has provided a large amount of development assistance to Africa and helped build more than 6,000 kilometers of railway, over 6,000 kilometers of highway, and 80-plus large power facilities on the continent. Going forward, China will carry out more cooperation with African countries to support Africa in enhancing its own capacity for development. Specific measures will be taken, such as providing satellite mapping data products, implementing a Smart Customs cooperation partnership, and launching with UNESCO a “GDI for Africa’s Future” action plan, to support sustainable development in Africa.
Colleagues,
A Chinese adage reads, “Victory is ensured when people pool their strength; success is secured when people put their heads together.” Let us stay committed and united to build a community of shared development, and make sure that in the process of global modernization, no country is left behind.
Thank you."
"Remarks by H.E. Xi Jinping
President of the People’s Republic of China
At the 15th BRICS Summit
Johannesburg, August 23, 2023
Your Excellency President Matamela Cyril Ramaphosa,
Your Excellency President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva,
Your Excellency President Vladimir Putin,
Your Excellency Prime Minister Narendra Modi,
I am very pleased to join you in Johannesburg for the important discussions on BRICS cooperation and development. It is especially significant that the BRICS Summit is held in Africa for the third time. I wish to thank President Ramaphosa and the South African government for the thoughtful arrangements.
We gather at a time when the world has entered a new period of turbulence and transformation. It is undergoing major shifts, division and regrouping, leading to more uncertain, unstable and unpredictable developments.
BRICS is an important force in shaping the international landscape. We choose our development paths independently, jointly defend our right to development, and march in tandem toward modernization. This represents the direction of the advancement of human society, and will profoundly impact the development process of the world. Our track record shows that we have consistently acted on the BRICS spirit of openness, inclusiveness and win-win cooperation, and taken BRICS cooperation to new heights in support of our five countries’ development. We have upheld fairness and justice in international affairs, stood up for what is right on major international and regional issues, and enhanced the voice and influence of emerging markets and developing countries. BRICS countries invariably advocate and practice independent foreign policies. We always address major international issues based on their merits, making fair remarks and taking fair actions. We do not barter away principles, succumb to external pressure, or act as vassals of others. We BRICS countries share extensive consensus and common goals. No matter how the international situation changes, our commitment to cooperation since the very beginning and our common aspiration will not change.
We gather at a crucial time to build on our past achievements and open up a new future for BRICS cooperation. We should navigate the trend of our times and stay in the forefront. We should always bear in mind our founding purpose of strengthening ourselves through unity, enhance cooperation across the board, and build a high-quality partnership. We should help reform global governance to make it more just and equitable, and bring to the world more certainty, stability and positive energy.
—We should deepen business and financial cooperation to boost economic growth.
Development is an inalienable right of all countries, not a privilege reserved for a few. The world economic recovery remains shaky, with less than 3 percent of growth for the year as estimated by some international institutions. Challenges for developing countries are even more formidable, hampering their efforts to realize the Sustainable Development Goals. We BRICS countries should be fellow companions on the journey of development and revitalization, and oppose decoupling and supply chains disruption as well as economic coercion. We should focus on practical cooperation, particularly in such fields as digital economy, green development, and supply chain, and bolster economic, trade and financial exchanges.
China will set up a China-BRICS Science and Innovation Incubation Park for the New Era to support the deployment of innovation results. Under the BRICS Remote Sensing Satellite Constellation mechanism, we will explore the establishment of a BRICS Global Remote Sensing Satellite Data and Application Cooperation Platform to provide data support for agriculture, ecological conservation and disaster reduction in various countries. China will also work with all parties to jointly establish a BRICS Framework on Industrial Cooperation for Sustainable Development as a platform of industrial coordination and project cooperation in implementing the United Nations (U.N.) 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
—We should expand political and security cooperation to uphold peace and tranquility.
As a Chinese saying suggests, “Nothing is more beneficial than stability, and nothing is more detrimental than turmoil.” The Cold War mentality is still haunting our world, and the geopolitical situation is getting tense. All nations long for a sound security environment. International security is indivisible. Attempts to seek absolute security at the expense of others will eventually backfire. The Ukraine crisis has evolved to where it is today because of complex reasons. What is pressing now is to encourage peace talks, promote deescalation, end the fighting, and realize peace. No one should add fuel to the fire to worsen the situation.
BRICS countries should keep to the direction of peaceful development, and consolidate the BRICS strategic partnership. We need to make good use of the BRICS Foreign Ministers’ Meeting, the Meeting of High Representatives on National Security and other mechanisms, support each other on issues concerning our respective core interests, and enhance coordination on major international and regional issues. We need to tender good offices on hotspot issues, pushing for political settlement and lowering the temperature. Artificial intelligence (AI) is a new area of development. BRICS countries have agreed to launch the AI Study Group of BRICS Institute of Future Networks at an early date. We need to enable the Study Group to play its full role, further expand cooperation on AI, and step up information exchange and technological cooperation. We need to jointly fend off risks, and develop AI governance frameworks and standards with broad-based consensus, so as to make AI technologies more secure, reliable, controllable and equitable.
—We should increase people-to-people exchanges and promote mutual learning between civilizations.
There are many civilizations and development paths in the world, and this is how the world should be. Human history will not end with a particular civilization or system. BRICS countries need to champion the spirit of inclusiveness, advocate peaceful coexistence and harmony between civilizations, and promote respect of all countries in independently choosing their modernization paths. We need to make good use of such mechanisms as the BRICS seminar on governance, the BRICS forum on people-to-people and cultural exchanges, and the Women Innovation Contest to deepen people-to-people exchanges and strengthen the bond between our peoples.
China would like to propose that BRICS countries expand cooperation on education, enhance the role of the BRICS alliance for vocational education, explore and set up a cooperation mechanism on digital education, and foster a paradigm of all-round cooperation on education. In addition, we also need to strengthen exchanges on traditional cultures and promote the renewal of fine traditional cultures.
—We should uphold fairness and justice and improve global governance.
Strengthening global governance is the right choice if the international community intends to share development opportunities and tackle global challenges. International rules must be written and upheld jointly by all countries based on the purposes and principles of the U.N. Charter, rather than dictated by those with the strongest muscles or the loudest voice. Ganging up to form exclusive groups and packaging their own rules as international norms are even more unacceptable. BRICS countries should practice true multilateralism, uphold the U.N.-centered international system, support and strengthen the WTO-centered multilateral trading system, and reject the attempt to create small circles or exclusive blocs. We need to fully leverage the role of the New Development Bank, push forward reform of the international financial and monetary systems, and increase the representation and voice of developing countries.
I am glad to see the growing enthusiasm of developing countries about BRICS cooperation, and quite a number of them have applied to join the BRICS cooperation mechanism. We need to act on the BRICS spirit of openness, inclusiveness and win-win cooperation to bring more countries into the BRICS family, so as to pool our wisdom and strength to make global governance more just and equitable.
Colleagues,
The ancient African continent is a reservoir of simple yet profound wisdom. As an African proverb puts it, “If you want to go fast, go alone; if you want to go far, go together.” The philosophy of Ubuntu, which believes that “I am because we are,” highlights the interdependence and interconnectedness of all peoples. Similarly, harmonious coexistence has been the aspiration of the Chinese nation for thousands of years. China is ready to work with BRICS partners to pursue the vision of a community with a shared future for mankind, enhance the strategic partnership, and deepen cooperation across the board. As fellow BRICS members, we should meet our common challenges with a shared sense of mission, shape a brighter future with a common purpose, and march together on the journey toward modernization.
Thank you."
"Address by H.E. Xi Jinping
President of the People’s Republic of China
At the Closing Ceremony of the BRICS Business Forum 2023
Johannesburg, August 22, 2023
Your Excellency President Matamela Cyril Ramaphosa,
Members of the Business Community,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
I wish to extend my warm congratulations on the success of the BRICS Business Forum in South Africa!
Ten years ago here in South Africa, we BRICS leaders witnessed the birth of the BRICS Business Council. Since then, the Council has stayed true to its founding mission. It has seized opportunities to deepen cooperation, contributing to economic and social development of BRICS countries and helping sustain global economic growth.
Right now, changes in the world, in our times and in history are unfolding in ways like never before, bringing human society to a critical juncture. Should we pursue cooperation and integration, or just succumb to division and confrontation? Should we work together to maintain peace and stability, or just sleepwalk into the abyss of a new Cold War? Should we embrace prosperity, openness and inclusiveness, or allow hegemonic and bullying acts to throw us into depression? Should we deepen mutual trust through exchanges and mutual learning, or allow hubris and prejudice to blind conscience? The course of history will be shaped by the choices we make.
An ancient Chinese thinker observed that “following the underlying trend will lead one to success, while going against it can only cause one to fail.” We humankind have achieved notable economic development and social progress over the past decades, and that is because we have drawn lessons from the two world wars and the Cold War, followed the historical trend of economic globalization, and embarked on the right path of openness and development for win-win cooperation. Our world today has become a community with a shared future in which we all share a huge stake of survival. What people in various countries long for is definitely not a new Cold War or a small exclusive bloc; what they want is an open, inclusive, clean and beautiful world that enjoys enduring peace, universal security and common prosperity. Such is the logic of historical advance and the trend of our times.
Ten years ago, I made a proposition of building a community with a shared future for mankind, calling on all countries to build this planet we all call home into a harmonious family. In the face of high winds, choppy waters and even treacherous storms, we in all countries need to uphold the correct views of the world, of history and of our overall interests, and act to translate the vision of a community with a shared future for mankind into reality.
—We need to promote development and prosperity for all.
Many emerging markets and developing countries (EMDCs) have come to what they are today after shaking off the yoke of colonialism. With perseverance, hard work and huge sacrifices, we succeeded in gaining independence and have been exploring development paths suited to our national conditions. Everything we do is to deliver better lives to our people. But some country, obsessed with maintaining its hegemony, has gone out of its way to cripple the EMDCs. Whoever is developing fast becomes its target of containment; whoever is catching up becomes its target of obstruction. But this is futile, as I have said more than once that blowing out others’ lamp will not bring light to oneself.
Every country has the right to development, and the people in every country have the freedom to pursue a happy life. With that in mind, I have proposed the Global Development Initiative, with the goal of promoting development for all by the international community and boosting the U.N. 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. With the support of many countries, solid gains have been made in pursuing this initiative, with cooperation flourishing in various fields. China will work with all other countries to speed up cooperation under the Global Development Initiative, strengthen drivers of global development, promote the reform of the World Trade Organization in a comprehensive and in-depth manner, meet common challenges together and make life better for people across the world.
—We need to achieve universal security.
Recent years have seen a turbulent world; many countries and regions are plagued by wars and conflicts and many people are displaced. Members of the international community share the pressing hope to eradicate the root cause of conflicts and wars, and find a fundamental way to realize enduring peace and security globally. Facts have shown that any attempt to keep enlarging a military alliance, expand one’s own sphere of influence or squeeze other countries’ buffer of security can only create security predicament and insecurity for all countries. Only a commitment to a new vision of common, comprehensive, cooperative and sustainable security can lead to universal security.
Last year, I put forward the Global Security Initiative, and it has gained support from over 100 countries and international organizations. China stands ready to jointly pursue this initiative with all others. We should have dialogue and oppose confrontation, forge partnership but not alliance, and pursue win-win outcome and oppose zero-sum game, and work together to build a community of security.
—We need to stay committed to exchanges among civilizations and mutual learning.
One flower alone cannot make a beautiful spring; only blossoming of a rich variety of flowers can bring spring to the global garden. Human civilization is colorful by nature. It is precisely because of their differences in history, culture and system that all countries need to interact with one another, learn from each other, and advance together. Deliberately creating division with the assertion of “democracy versus authoritarianism” and “liberalism versus autocracy” can only split the world and lead to clash of civilizations.
I have put forward the Global Civilization Initiative, calling for promoting diversity of global civilizations, the common values of humanity, and people-to-people and cultural exchanges and cooperation. China welcomes all other countries to get involved in cooperation under this initiative. We should encourage different civilizations to bring out their best and flourish together; we should break barriers to exchanges, and renew human civilization.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
As an ancient Chinese philosopher observes, “Change is the nature of the universe.” The collective rise of EMDCs represented by BRICS is fundamentally changing the global landscape. EMDCs have contributed as high as 80 percent of global growth in the past 20 years, and their share in the global GDP has increased from 24 percent 40 years ago to more than 40 percent. Just as a line in a Chinese poem reads, “No mountains can stop the surging flow of a mighty river.” Whatever resistance there may be, BRICS, a positive and stable force for good, will continue to grow. We will forge stronger BRICS strategic partnership, expand the “BRICS Plus” model, actively advance membership expansion, deepen solidarity and cooperation with other EMDCs, promote global multipolarity and greater democracy in international relations, and help make the international order more just and equitable. The gathering between BRICS countries and more than 50 other countries in South Africa today is not an exercise of asking countries to take sides, nor an exercise of creating bloc confrontation. Rather, it is an endeavor to expand the architecture of peace and development. I am glad to note that over 20 countries are knocking on the door of BRICS. China hopes to see more joining the BRICS cooperation mechanism.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
China stays committed to an independent foreign policy of peace and the building of a community with a shared future for mankind. As a developing country and a member of the Global South, China breathes the same breath with other developing countries and pursues a shared future with them. China has resolutely upheld the common interests of developing countries and worked to increase the representation and voice of EMDCs in global affairs. Hegemonism is not in China’s DNA; nor does China have any motivation to engage in major-power competition. China stands firmly on the right side of history, and believes that a just cause should be pursued for the common good.
At present, we Chinese, under the leadership of the Communist Party of China, are advancing the great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation on all fronts by pursuing Chinese modernization. Chinese modernization aims to achieve common prosperity, material and cultural-ethical advancement, harmony between humanity and nature, and peaceful development for a huge population. Chinese modernization has created a new form of human advancement and presented a new future of modernization. We hope that other developing countries can draw on the outstanding achievements of human civilization and find their own paths to modernization in keeping with their national conditions.
Achieving high-quality development is a top priority in China’s goal of fully building itself into a modernized country. We are committed to applying a new development philosophy and creating a new development paradigm. In the past decade, China has contributed more than 30 percent of annual global growth. This year, the Chinese economy has maintained the momentum of recovery and growth. China enjoys several distinct advantages: a socialist market economy in systemic terms, a supersize market in terms of demand, a full-fledged industrial system in terms of supply, and abundant, high-caliber labor force and entrepreneurs in terms of human resources. The Chinese economy has strong resilience, tremendous potential and great vitality. The fundamentals sustaining China’s long-term growth will remain unchanged. The giant ship of the Chinese economy will continue to cleave waves and sail ahead.
China will remain an important opportunity for the world’s development. Our door is wide open to anyone who wants to engage in cooperation with us. As a supersize economy, China will remain firm in advancing high-standard opening-up. We will continue to expand market access, cut the negative list for foreign investment, and further open the modern services sector. We will steadily improve the business environment, provide national treatment to foreign-invested enterprises, foster a world-class, market-oriented business environment governed by a sound legal framework, and build a globally-oriented network of high-standard free trade areas. We will continue to advance ecological conservation, accelerate the building of a Beautiful China, actively and prudently move toward carbon peak and carbon neutrality, and pursue all-round green transition in economic and social development. Going forward, as it endeavors to achieve modernization for its more than 1.4 billion people, China will surely contribute even more to the global economy and provide even more opportunities for the global business community.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
A formidable mission is a magnificent and glorious mission. As long as we work in unity and strengthen cooperation, we will not be intimidated by any risk or challenge on the way ahead, and we will surely steer the giant ship of human development to a brighter future!
Thank you."
"BEIJING, Aug. 21 A signed article by Chinese President Xi Jinping titled "Sailing the Giant Ship of China-South Africa Friendship and Cooperation Toward Greater Success" was published Monday on South African media as he is going to attend the 15th BRICS Summit in Johannesburg and pay a state visit to South Africa.
An English version of the article, carried by The Star, Cape Times, The Mercury as well as Independent Online, is as follows:
Sailing the Giant Ship of China-South Africa
Friendship and Cooperation Toward Greater Success
Xi Jinping
President of the People's Republic of China
At the invitation of President Matamela Cyril Ramaphosa, I will soon make a state visit to the Republic of South Africa and attend the 15th BRICS Summit. It will be my sixth visit to the promising land of the "rainbow nation". South Africa is home to the great statesman Nelson Mandela, and it boasts the richest tourist resources, the longest road network, the biggest securities exchange, and the busiest airports and harbors in Africa. The country exudes unique charm with the perfect amalgam of the ancient and the modern, and of nature and culture.
Each of my visits to South Africa gave me new impressions. But the deepest is invariably the brotherly sentiments we have toward each other. Our friendship has traversed a long span of time. As early as in the mid-20th century, the newly founded People's Republic of China lent firm support to the South African people in fighting apartheid, and stood with the African National Congress as comrades and friends. Our friendship has defied the obstacles of mountains and oceans. Facing the sudden onslaught of COVID-19, China was among the first to provide anti-pandemic supplies to South Africa, reaffirming our special brotherhood. More recently, China also provided to the country emergency power equipment. Over the past 25 years since the establishment of diplomatic ties, our relationship has achieved leapfrog development--from a partnership to a strategic partnership, and then to a comprehensive strategic partnership. It is one of the most vibrant bilateral relations in the developing world. Our relationship has entered a "golden era", enjoying broad prospects and a promising future.
In recent years, President Ramaphosa and I have maintained close communication through visits, meetings, phone calls and letters. We jointly explore cooperation opportunities, pursue development, and stand up to common challenges. Our strategic mutual trust has been deepening steadily. We give each other firm support on issues involving our respective core interests and major concerns, and maintain coordination on major international and regional issues. We work together to practice true multilateralism and push for the building of a more just and equitable international order.
South Africa was the first African country to sign the Belt and Road cooperation document with China. It has been China's biggest trading partner in Africa for 13 years in a row, as well as one of the African countries with the largest stock of Chinese investment. The pie of bilateral cooperation is getting bigger. South Africa's wines, rooibos tea, and aloe vera gels are trending products in China. Many Chinese companies are expanding their operation and at the same time taking more social responsibilities in South Africa. Automobiles and home appliances with Chinese brands yet made in South Africa are very popular among local consumers, and are now owned by numerous South African households. South African companies are also racing to invest in the Chinese market to seize the abundant business opportunities, and they have made important contribution to China's economic growth.
South Africa's Ubuntu philosophy advocates compassion and sharing. It resonates well with the values of Confucianism--"love the people and all beings and seek harmony among all nations". In 2015, I participated in the Year of China activities in South Africa, and witnessed the gratifying achievements of our Year of China/South Africa programs. Last April, the faculty and students of the Confucius Institute at Durban University of Technology wrote me a letter in Chinese, expressing their fondness for the Chinese culture and thanking China for the valuable opportunities provided to young Africans chasing their dreams. I find it very heart-warming. Indeed, these vibrant people-to-people exchanges enhance the empathy between our peoples, and enable our friendship to be passed down from generation to generation.
The China-South Africa relationship is standing at a new historical starting point. It has gone beyond the bilateral scope and carries increasingly important global influence. During my forthcoming visit, I look forward to working with President Ramaphosa to chart the plan for a new chapter of our comprehensive strategic partnership.
China and South Africa should be fellow companions sharing the same ideals. As an ancient Chinese saying goes, "A partnership forged with the right approach defies distance; it is thicker than glue and stronger than metal and rock." We need to increase our experience sharing on governance, and firmly support each other in independently exploring a path to modernization that suits our respective national conditions. We should fear no hegemony, and work with each other as real partners to push forward our relations amid the changing international landscape.
China and South Africa should be pacesetters for solidarity and cooperation. We will succeed because of our biggest strengths in high economic complementarity and the solid foundation for cooperation. We need to further synergize development strategies, promote stronger cooperation in infrastructure, digital economy, scientific and technological innovation and energy transition, and ensure that more people of our two countries will benefit from the development outcomes. China welcomes more South African products to its market, and encourages more Chinese companies to invest and do business in South Africa as an effort of support for South Africa's target to double its inbound investment over the next five-year period.
China and South Africa should be inheritors of China-Africa friendship. We need to leverage the all-round, multi-tiered and institutionalized mechanisms for people-to-people exchanges between our two countries, and continue to advance exchanges and cooperation in culture, tourism, education, sports, media, universities, sub-national governments and the youth. We must keep the spirit of China-Africa friendship and cooperation as alive and strong as ever across the vast lands of China and Africa.
China and South Africa should be champions of our common interests. What the world needs today is peace, not conflict; what the world wants is coordination, not confrontation. China and South Africa, as natural members of the Global South, should all the more work together to appeal for greater voice and influence of developing countries in international affairs, promote accelerated reform of international financial institutions, and oppose unilateral sanctions and the "small yard, high fence" approach. We should jointly safeguard our common interests.
The BRICS Summit is another important agenda during my visit to South Africa. This is the third time for the Summit to take place on this continent brimming with vibrancy and hope. I still have vivid memories of the Summit in the picturesque Sanya, China's Hainan Province, when South Africa made the formal debut as a member of the BRICS family. Over the past 12 years, South Africa has made important contributions to the development of BRICS cooperation mechanism, further substantiating BRICS cooperation and extending its influence. Now more and more countries are knocking on the door of BRICS, aspiring to join our cooperation. This is a testament to the vitality and influence of the BRICS cooperation mechanism. China is ready to work with fellow BRICS partners to act on the BRICS spirit of openness, inclusiveness and win-win cooperation, build consensus on important issues, carry forward our tradition of independent diplomacy, and resolutely uphold international equity and justice. We will urge the international community to refocus on development issues, promote a greater role by the BRICS cooperation mechanism in global governance, and make the voice of BRICS stronger.
It has been ten years since I put forth "sincerity, real results, amity and good faith" as the principles for China to develop its relations with Africa. The past decade has witnessed our joint pursuit of a China-Africa community with a shared future in the new era, and the completion and handover of a host of projects including the Africa CDC Headquarters, the Foundiougne Bridge in Senegal, the Nairobi Expressway and the Mombasa-Nairobi Railway, renewing China-Africa friendship across the vast lands of China and Africa.
In face of the profound changes unseen in a century, a strong China-Africa relationship and productive China-Africa cooperation will provide more fresh impetus to global development and ensure greater stability of the world. This is an international responsibility and historical mission entrusted to the 2.8 billion Chinese and African peoples. We will convene a China-Africa Leaders' Dialogue. I will work with African leaders to bring more active, effective and sustainable development initiatives to Africa, expand cooperation in agriculture, manufacturing, new energy and digital economy, and facilitate Africa's economic integration, industrialization and agricultural modernization. China will continue to work for substantive progress in African Union's joining of the G20 this year, and looks forward to a greater role by African countries and the AU in international and regional affairs.
As an ancient Chinese poem goes, "With high tide and tailwind, it is time to sail a smooth ride." Looking ahead into the next 25 years, the giant ship of China-South Africa friendship and cooperation will sail forward, and we will make even greater progress in the building of a China-Africa community with a shared future in the new era as well as the building of a community with a shared future for mankind. Enditem"
"Statement by H.E. Xi Jinping
President of the People’s Republic of China
At the 23rd Meeting of the Council of Heads of State
Of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization
July 4, 2023
Your Excellency Prime Minister Narendra Modi,
Distinguished Colleagues,
I wish to thank India for hosting the meeting of the Council of Heads of State as the current president of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO).
At this meeting, we are going to welcome Iran as a full member and sign the memorandum of obligations on the membership of Belarus. This will manifest the vitality of our SCO family. I offer my congratulations to the two countries.
Colleagues,
Ten years ago, in view of the changes of the world, of our times and of the trajectory of history, I opined that mankind, living in the same global village, are increasingly becoming a community with a shared future in which everyone’s interest is closely interlinked. Since then, the concept of a community with a shared future for mankind has gained extensive recognition and support from the international community, and has been transforming from an idea to action and a vision to reality. At the forefront of this trend is the SCO, upholding this very concept and the Shanghai Spirit to build an SCO community with a shared future.
—We have followed our fine tradition of standing together through thick and thin, as passengers in the same boat should do, and we have firmly supported each other in standing up for our respective core interests. We have become trustworthy partners on our paths to development and national rejuvenation.
—We have acted out the concept of common, comprehensive, cooperative and sustainable security, accommodated each other’s legitimate security concerns, and responded to both traditional and nontraditional security challenges. Together we have safeguarded peace and tranquility in the region, and fostered a favorable environment for countries in the region to pursue development and prosperity.
—We have embraced the development philosophy of innovative, coordinated, green, open and shared growth, synergized our national development strategies and regional cooperation initiatives, and nurtured new growth areas for our cooperation in economy and trade, connectivity, energy, agriculture, finance, and innovation. This has helped promote coordination in our economic development.
—We have carried forward the spirit of good-neighborliness, and advocated equality, mutual learning, dialogue and inclusiveness between civilizations. We have called for peaceful coexistence and harmonious development of different civilizations, and expanded people-to-people and cultural cooperation. We have enhanced the popular support for our state-to-state relations.
—We have upheld international fairness and justice, and opposed hegemonic, high-handed, and bullying acts. We have enlarged the circle of friends of our Organization, and built partnerships featuring dialogue instead of confrontation, cooperation instead of alliance. This has strengthened the progressive forces for world peace and stability.
Colleagues,
The world today is undergoing both transformation and upheaval; changes unseen in a century are unfolding at a faster pace; human society faces unprecedented challenges. Unity or split, peace or conflict, cooperation or confrontation—these are the questions raised again by our times. My answer is this: the people’s wish for a happy life is our goal, and peace, development and win-win cooperation are the unstoppable trends of the times.
The SCO has been growing stronger in recent years. This means development opportunities as well as unprecedented risks and challenges. As the great Indian poet Rabindranath Tagore put it, “The sea of danger, doubt and denial around man’s little island of certainty challenges him to dare the unknown.” We must rise to the call of our times, keep in mind our founding mission, and stay in unity and coordination to bring more certainty and positive energy to world peace and development. To this end, I wish to make the following proposals:
First, we should keep to the right direction and enhance solidarity and mutual trust. Since its founding over 20 years ago, the SCO has withstood the test of the changing international landscape, and kept moving in the right direction of promoting solidarity, mutual trust, development and cooperation. We have accumulated valuable experience, and achieved hard-won development gains. Facts have shown that as long as we bear in mind the larger picture, shoulder our responsibilities and remain undisturbed by all sorts of distractions, we will be able to protect and promote the security and development interests of our member states.
We should step up strategic communication and coordination, bridge differences through dialogue, and replace competition with cooperation. We should truly respect each other’s core interests and major concerns, and firmly support each other’s endeavor for development and rejuvenation. We should keep in mind the overall and long-term interests of our region, and make our foreign policies independently. We must be highly vigilant against external attempts to foment a new Cold War or camp-based confrontation in our region. We must resolutely reject any interference in our internal affairs and the instigation of “color revolutions” by any country under whatever pretext. The future of our development must be held firmly in our own hands.
Second, we should maintain regional peace and safeguard common security. Sustaining peace and security in this region is our common responsibility. China stands ready to work with all sides to implement the Global Security Initiative, promote the settlement of international disputes through dialogue and consultation, and encourage political settlement of international and regional hotspots, so as to forge a solid security shield in our region.
We need to upgrade SCO security cooperation, and continue to conduct joint operations. We should crack down hard on the forces of terrorism, separatism and extremism such as the “East Turkistan” elements, drug trafficking, and cyber and transnational organized crimes. We should move faster to strengthen the mechanisms for our law enforcement and security cooperation, and expand cooperation in the nontraditional security fields, including digital, biological and outer space security. We should continue to utilize platforms such as the mechanism of coordination and cooperation among Afghanistan’s neighbors to increase humanitarian support to Afghanistan, and encourage the Afghan authorities to establish a broad-based and inclusive political structure and embark on the path of peace and reconstruction.
Third, we should focus on practical cooperation and expedite economic recovery. Promoting economic growth is a common task for all countries in the region. China stands ready to work with all sides to implement the Global Development Initiative, keep to the right direction of economic globalization, oppose protectionism, unilateral sanctions and the overstretching of national security, and reject the moves of setting up barriers, decoupling and severing supply chains. We should make the pie of win-win cooperation bigger, and ensure that more development gains will be shared more fairly by people across the world.
We need to enhance the connection of high-quality Belt and Road cooperation with development strategies of various countries and regional cooperation initiatives. We should further promote trade and investment liberalization and facilitation, speed up the development of port infrastructure and regional and international logistic corridors, and ensure stable and smooth functioning of regional industrial and supply chains. Ten years ago I proposed the Belt and Road Initiative, and on its tenth anniversary, China will hold the third Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation. I welcome your participation. We should work together to broaden the Belt and Road as a “path of happiness” benefiting the whole world.
China proposes that the SCO scale up local currency settlement between member states, expand cooperation on sovereign digital currency, and promote the establishment of an SCO development bank. China is ready to share market opportunities and development experience, and implement the capacity-building program to empower young professional farmers. China will carry out digital technology training programs in collaboration with the China-SCO Big Data Cooperation Center, and host an SCO national green development forum.
There are already a number of ministerial meeting mechanisms under the SCO framework for practical cooperation in various areas. China has also established cooperation platforms such as the local economic and trade cooperation demonstration area, and the demonstration base for agricultural technology exchange and training. We should make full use of these mechanisms and platforms to help us tackle the vexing issues in our practical cooperation and facilitate high-quality development of SCO economies.
Fourth, we should strengthen exchanges and mutual learning and forge closer bonds between our peoples. All nations in the region aspire to see harmonious development of different civilizations. We welcome all sides to work together to implement the Global Civilization Initiative, promote inclusiveness and coexistence among all civilizations, and increase mutual understanding and friendship among all nations.
We should further deepen cooperation in education, science and technology, culture, health, sport and media, support the work of non-official organizations such as the SCO Committee on Good-Neighborliness, Friendship and Cooperation, and organize more events for people-to-people exchanges. In the coming three years, China will provide SCO member states with 1,000 International Chinese Language Teachers Scholarships, offer 3,000 “Chinese Bridge” summer camp opportunities, and invite 100 young scientists to China for scientific research exchanges. China will also host events on rural revitalization and climate response. Your participation will be most welcome.
Fifth, we should practice multilateralism and improve global governance. All countries in the region pursue fairness and justice. We should advocate the common values of humanity, uphold the UN-centered international system and the international order based on international law, and oppose hegemonism and power politics. We should make global governance more just and equitable, and advance modernization of the entire humanity through collective efforts to promote equal rights, equal opportunities and fair rules for all. We should support more SCO engagements with observer states, dialogue partners and other regional and international organizations such as the UN, and jointly promote world peace, drive global development and safeguard the international order.
Colleagues,
The Chinese people are rallied behind the Communist Party of China to pursue Chinese modernization. It is the modernization of a huge population, of common prosperity for all, of material and cultural-ethical advancement, of harmony between humanity and nature, and of peaceful development. With these main attributes, it has created a new form of human advancement. China hopes to share new development opportunities with SCO members and all countries around the world through its achievements in modernization, and together make the world a better place.
Colleagues,
China congratulates President Kassym-Jomart Tokayev on assuming the presidency of the Council of Heads of State, and will work with all member states to actively support Kazakhstan’s presidency.
A just cause finds great support, and a journey with many companions gets far. The SCO’s development accords with the trend of our times and goes along with the direction of human progress. Through our joint efforts, it will definitely grow from strength to strength.
Thank you."
"Keynote Speech by H.E. Xi Jinping
President of the People’s Republic of China
At the China-Central Asia Summit
19 May 2023
Distinguished Colleagues,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
I’d like to welcome you all to Xi’an for the China-Central Asia Summit to explore together ways for closer cooperation between China and the five Central Asian countries.
Xi’an, known as Chang’an in ancient times, is an important cradle of the Chinese civilization and nation. It is also the starting point of the ancient Silk Road on the east end. Over 2,100 years ago, Zhang Qian, a Han Dynasty envoy, made his journey to the West from Chang’an, opening the door to the friendship and exchanges between China and Central Asia. With their joint endeavor of hundreds of years, Chinese and Central Asian peoples made the Silk Road expand and prosper, a historic contribution to the interaction, integration, enrichment and development of world civilizations. The Tang Dynasty poet Li Bai (701-761) once wrote, “In Chang’an we meet again, worthy of more than a thousand pieces of gold.” Our gathering in Xi’an today to renew our millennia-old friendship and open up new vistas for the future is of very important significance.
Back in 2013, I put forward the initiative of jointly building a Silk Road Economic Belt during my first visit to Central Asia as Chinese president. Over the past decade, China and Central Asian countries have worked closely together to fully revive the Silk Road and actively deepen future-oriented cooperation, steering our relations into a new era.
The China-Kyrgyzstan-Uzbekistan highway that runs across the Tianshan Mountain, the China-Tajikistan expressway that defies the Pamir Plateau, and the China-Kazakhstan crude oil pipeline and the China-Central Asia Gas Pipeline that traverse the vast desert — they are the present-day Silk Road. The China-Europe Railway Express operating around the clock, the endless streams of freight trucks, and crisscrossing flights — they are the present-day camel caravans. Entrepreneurs seeking business opportunities, health workers fighting the COVID-19, cultural workers delivering message of friendship, and international students pursuing further education — they are the present-day goodwill ambassadors.
The China-Central Asia relationship is steeped in history, driven by broad actual needs, and built on solid popular support. Our relations are brimming with vigor and vitality in the new era.
Colleagues,
Transformations of the world unseen in a century are unfolding at a faster pace. Changes of the world, of our times, and of the historical trajectory are taking place in ways like never before. Central Asia, the center of the Eurasian continent, is at a crossroads connecting the East and West, the South and North.
The world needs a stable Central Asia.
The sovereignty, security, independence and territorial integrity of Central Asian countries must be upheld; their people’s choice of development paths must be respected; and their efforts for peace, harmony and tranquility must be supported.
The world needs a prosperous Central Asia.
A dynamic and prospering Central Asia will help people in the region achieve their aspiration for a better life. It will also lend strong impetus to global economic recovery.
The world needs a harmonious Central Asia.
As a Central Asian saying goes, “Brotherhood is more precious than any treasure.” Ethnic conflicts, religious strife, and cultural estrangement are not the defining feature of the region. Instead, solidarity, inclusiveness, and harmony are the pursuits of the Central Asian people. No one has the right to sow discord or stoke confrontation in the region, let alone seek selfish political interests.
The world needs an interconnected Central Asia.
Blessed with unique geographical advantages, Central Asia has the right foundation, condition and capability to become an important connectivity hub of Eurasia and make unique contribution to the trading of goods, the interplay of civilizations and the development of science and technology in the world.
Colleagues,
At the virtual summit commemorating the 30th anniversary of diplomatic relations between China and Central Asian countries held last year, we jointly announced our vision of a China-Central Asia community with a shared future. It was a historic choice made for the fundamental interests and bright future of our peoples in the new era. In building this community, we need to stay committed to four principles.
First, mutual assistance.
It is important that we deepen strategic mutual trust, and always give each other unequivocal and strong support on issues concerning our core interests such as sovereignty, independence, national dignity, and long-term development. We should work together to ensure that our community features mutual assistance, solidarity, and mutual trust.
Second, common development.
It is important that we continue to set the pace for Belt and Road cooperation and deliver on the Global Development Initiative. We should fully unlock our potentials in traditional areas of cooperation such as economy, trade, industrial capacity, energy and transportation. And we should forge new drivers of growth in finance, agriculture, poverty reduction, green and low-carbon development, medical service, health, and digital innovation. We should work together to ensure that our community features win-win cooperation and common progress.
Third, universal security.
It is important that we act on the Global Security Initiative, and stand firm against external attempts to interfere in domestic affairs of regional countries or instigate color revolutions. We should remain zero-tolerant to the three forces of terrorism, separatism and extremism, and strive to resolve security conundrums in the region. We should work together to ensure that our community features no-conflict and enduring peace.
Fourth, everlasting friendship.
It is important that we implement the Global Civilization Initiative, carry forward our traditional friendship, and enhance people-to-people exchanges. We should do more to share our experience in governance, deepen cultural mutual learning, increase mutual understanding, and cement the foundation of the everlasting friendship between the Chinese and Central Asian peoples. We should work together to ensure that our community features close affinity and shared conviction.
Colleagues,
Our Summit has created a new platform and opened up new prospects for China-Central Asia cooperation. China will take this as an opportunity to step up coordination with all parties for good planning, development and progress of China-Central Asia cooperation.
First, we need to strengthen institutional building.
We have set up meeting mechanisms on foreign affairs, economy, trade and customs, as well as a business council. China has also proposed establishment of meeting and dialogue mechanisms on industry and investment, agriculture, transportation, emergency response, education, and political parties, which will be platforms for all-round mutually beneficial cooperation between our countries.
Second, we need to expand economic and trade ties.
China will take more trade facilitation measures, upgrade bilateral investment treaties, and open “green lanes” for streamlined customs clearance of agricultural and sideline products at all border ports between China and Central Asian countries. China will also hold a live-streaming sales event to further promote Central Asian products, and build a commodities trading center. All this is part of an effort to push two-way trade to new heights.
Third, we need to deepen connectivity.
China will strive to increase the volume of cross-border cargo transportation, support the development of the trans-Caspian international transport corridor, enhance the traffic capacity of the China-Kyrgyzstan-Uzbekistan highway and the China-Tajikistan-Uzbekistan highway, and move forward consultations on the China-Kyrgyzstan-Uzbekistan railway. China will seek to modernize the existing border ports at a faster pace, open a new border port at Biedieli, promote the opening of the air transportation market, and build a regional logistics network. China will also step up the development of China-Europe Railway Express assembly centers, encourage capable enterprises to build overseas warehouses in Central Asian countries, and build a comprehensive digital service platform.
Fourth, we need to expand energy cooperation.
China would like to propose that we establish a China-Central Asia energy development partnership. We should expedite the construction of Line D of the China-Central Asia Gas Pipeline, expand trade in oil and gas, pursue cooperation throughout the energy industrial chains, and strengthen cooperation on new energy and peaceful use of nuclear energy.
Fifth, we need to promote green innovation.
China will work with Central Asian countries to conduct cooperation in such areas as improvement and utilization of saline-alkali land and water-saving irrigation, build together a joint laboratory on agriculture in arid lands, and tackle the ecological crisis of the Aral Sea. China supports establishing high-tech firms and IT industrial parks in Central Asia. China also welcomes Central Asian countries to participate in special cooperation programs under the Belt and Road Initiative, including programs on sustainable development technologies, innovation and start-up, and spatial information science and technology.
Sixth, we need to enhance capabilities for development.
China will formulate a China-Central Asia special cooperation program for poverty reduction through science and technology, implement the “China-Central Asia technology and skills improvement scheme”, set up more Luban Workshops in Central Asian countries, and encourage Chinese companies in Central Asia to create more local jobs. To bolster our cooperation and Central Asian development, China will provide Central Asian countries with a total of 26 billion RMB yuan of financing support and grant.
Seventh, we need to strengthen dialogue between civilizations.
China invites Central Asian countries to take part in the “Cultural Silk Road” program, and will set up more traditional medicine centers in Central Asia. We will speed up establishment of cultural centers in each other’s countries. China will continue to provide government scholarships for Central Asian countries, and support their universities in joining the University Alliance of the Silk Road. We will ensure the success of the Year of Culture and Arts for the Peoples of China and Central Asian Countries as well as the China-Central Asia high-level media dialogue. We will launch the “China-Central Asia Cultural and Tourism Capital” program, and open special train services for cultural tourism in Central Asia.
Eighth, we need to safeguard peace in the region.
China is ready to help Central Asian countries strengthen capacity building on law enforcement, security and defense, support their independent efforts to safeguard regional security and fight terrorism, and work with them to promote cyber-security. We will continue to leverage the role of the coordination mechanism among Afghanistan’s neighbors, and jointly promote peace and reconstruction in Afghanistan.
Colleagues,
Last October, the Communist Party of China successfully held its 20th National Congress, which laid out the central task of realizing the Second Centenary Goal of building China into a great modern socialist country in all respects and advancing rejuvenation of the Chinese nation on all fronts through a Chinese path to modernization. It is a grand blueprint for China’s future development. We will strengthen theoretical and practical exchanges with Central Asian countries on modernization, synergize our development strategies, create more opportunities for cooperation, and jointly advance the modernization process of our six countries.
Colleagues,
There is a proverb popular among farmers in Shaanxi Province, “If you work hard enough, gold will grow out of the land.” In the same vein, a Central Asian saying goes, “You get rewarded if you give, and you harvest if you sow.” Let us work closely together to pursue common development, common affluence, and common prosperity, and embrace a brighter future for our six countries!
Thank you."
"Keynote Speech by H.E. Li Qiang
Premier of the State Council of the People’s Republic of China
At the Opening Plenary of
The Boao Forum for Asia Annual Conference 2023
Boao, March 30, 2023
Your Excellencies Heads of Government,
Your Excellencies Heads of International Organizations,
Your Excellencies Members of the Board of Directors of the Boao  Forum for Asia,
Distinguished Guests,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
It gives me great pleasure to join you in the beautiful Hainan island for the Boao Forum for Asia Annual Conference 2023. Let me begin by extending, on behalf of the Chinese government, warm congratulations on the opening of the Annual Conference, a hearty welcome to all participating guests, and sincere appreciation to you all for your longstanding care and support for China’s development.
The theme of this year’s Annual Conference, “An Uncertain World: Solidarity and Cooperation for Development amid Challenges”, is highly relevant to our times and responsive to our shared concerns. In a world of turmoil and transformation, humanity is faced with unprecedented challenges. Instability, uncertainty and unexpected developments have become the norm. Amid the momentous shifts where uncertainty abounds, people yearn for more and stronger forces of certainty to drive the world to a brighter future.
Ten years ago, President Xi Jinping put forward the vision of building a community with a shared future for mankind. Later, he expounded China’s proposition on this vision at this Forum and on many other international occasions, and went on to propose the Global Development Initiative (GDI), the Global Security Initiative (GSI) and the Global Civilization Initiative (GCI). These initiatives are China’s proposals for global development and governance. Over the past ten years, China has taken concrete actions to advance the building of a community with a shared future for mankind, and achieved a series of major outcomes. The high-quality Belt and Road cooperation, in particular, has helped developing countries achieve faster development and opened up new space for the growth of the world economy. Meanwhile, China has made productive efforts as a major responsible country to champion political settlement of crises, resolve international hot-spot issues, facilitate peace talks and de-escalate tensions. These are the real steps that China has taken to build a community with a shared future for mankind. What has happened shows that the vision of a community with a shared future for mankind has become a banner that guides the trend of the times and human progress, and a source of certainty for lasting peace and shared prosperity in the world.
Asia and the entire world are at a crossroads of history. We must hold high the banner of the vision of a community with a shared future for mankind, and join hands to foster an Asian community with a shared future. We need to work together to build an anchor for world peace, a source of impetus for global growth, and a new pacesetter for international cooperation, to add certainty to world peace and development and shape a better future for humanity.
First, working together to maintain a peaceful and stable environment for development to bring greater certainty to the fluid global environment. Peace is the prerequisite for development. Without a generally peaceful and stable environment, Asia’s remarkable progress in the past several decades would not have been possible. To achieve greater success, chaos and conflicts must not happen in Asia. Otherwise, the future of Asia would be lost. The Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence and the Bandung Spirit, which were developed nearly 70 years ago, encapsulate the wisdom of the Asian people. The Asian Way of mutual respect, consensus-building and accommodating the comfort levels of all parties provides the fundamental guide for countries to pursue development through cooperation. The more turbulent the world is, the more important it is for us to cherish these invaluable assets and firmly safeguard the hard-won peaceful environment. We need to stay committed to good neighborliness and amity, support ASEAN centrality in East Asian cooperation and work with a strong sense of togetherness in face of difficulty to keep Asia peaceful and stable. We need to implement the GSI, uphold the vision of common, comprehensive, cooperative and sustainable security, oppose wanton use of unilateral sanctions and long-arm jurisdiction, reject taking sides, bloc confrontation and new Cold War, address differences and disputes through peaceful means to jointly uphold world peace and tranquility.
Second, working together to build a more vibrant center of growth to bring greater certainty to world economic recovery. Asia, with nearly 60 percent of the world’s population, almost 40 percent of the global economy and over 30 percent of international trade, is an anchor and propeller of global growth. We need to implement the GDI, seize the opportunities in the latest round of technological revolution and industrial transformation, foster new drivers of growth through cooperation on the digital economy and green economy, and make Asia a source of impetus for world economic recovery and growth. It is important to deepen regional economic integration and intensify macro policy coordination. We need to pursue high-quality implementation of the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP), and actively advance negotiations on the new round of China-ASEAN FTA upgrade. We need to develop a regional structure on the division of labor that draws on comparative strengths and advances win-win cooperation, and work to foster a big regional market of greater openness. We need to build an open world economy, promote high-quality Belt and Road cooperation, further liberalize and facilitate global trade and investment, oppose trade protectionism, decoupling or cutting supply chains, keep global industrial and supply chains stable and smooth, and inject strong dynamism into the global economy.
Third, working together to expand effective ways for enhanced solidarity and cooperation to bring greater certainty to the shifting global governance. Today’s world is a global village where the futures and destinies of all countries are closely intertwined. The many global issues confronting humanity need to be addressed through consultation by all. Last year, Asian countries successfully hosted the BRICS Summit, the Leaders’ Meetings on East Asian Cooperation, the G20 Summit and the APEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting, playing an important role in improving global governance. We need to keep to the approach of extensive consultation, joint contribution and shared benefits to exercising global governance, take an active part in reforming and building the global governance system, and firmly uphold the UN-centered international system and the international order based on international law. We need to deepen cooperation on food, energy, environmental protection, disaster prevention and relief, climate response and poverty reduction, jointly make a strong call for peace and development, and send a positive signal of upholding multilateralism to make the global governance system more just and equitable.
Fourth, working together to pursue deeper and more substantive people-to-people exchanges to bring greater certainty to the interactions among civilizations. Not long ago, President Xi Jinping proposed the Global Civilization Initiative, providing an important direction for advancing inter-civilizational exchanges and mutual learning, and promoting the progress of human civilization. Asia is a showcase of cultural diversity where different civilizations enrich and inspire one another. Meanwhile, Asian countries are at different development stages, with developing countries accounting for the majority. Each country has its unique history, culture and national condition. We wish to work with all parties to implement the GCI and open up new prospects in people-to-people exchanges and cultural interactions that bring our peoples closer. We need to uphold mutual respect and trust, embrace openness and inclusiveness, respect the development paths that countries choose on their own, and reject the notion of “clash of civilizations” and ideological confrontation. We need to promote the common values of humanity, and increase exchanges in culture, education, health and among our young people and the media. We need to increase understanding and trust through sincere communication, and properly handle disagreements and problems in the spirit of seeking common ground while setting aside differences, to create a model of sound interactions among different civilizations.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
As the world’s largest developing country, China’s development itself has global impacts. While focusing on running our own affairs well, we in China have followed the trend of the times of peace, development, cooperation and mutual benefit, and have been a builder of world peace, a contributor to global development and a defender of international order. China has created the twin miracles of rapid economic growth and enduring social stability, which in itself is a contribution to the world. In this uncertain world, the certainty that China offers is an anchor for global peace and development. This has been the case in the past, and will remain so in the future.
Looking ahead over the longer run, there is certainty in the goals and prospects of China’s development. The 20th National Congress of the Communist Party of China (CPC) held last October drew up a blueprint for China’s future development. The Congress made it clear that by the middle of the century, the central task of the CPC is to lead the Chinese people of all ethnic groups in a concerted effort to realize the second centenary goal of building China into a great modern socialist country in all respects and to advance the rejuvenation of the Chinese nation on all fronts through a Chinese path to modernization. The modernization that China aims to achieve is the modernization that involves a huge population and features common prosperity for all, material and cultural-ethical advancement, harmony between man and nature, and peaceful development. We will not pursue such modernization through war, colonization or plunder, but peace and development to bring our entire 1.4 billion-plus people into a modern society. This will create powerful impetus for economic growth in Asia and beyond. Accomplishing this central task requires long, persistent efforts. In this process, no matter how the world situation may evolve, we will stay committed to reform, opening-up and innovation-driven development. We will continue to inject new vigor and vitality into the global economic development, and welcome countries around the world to share in the opportunities and benefits that come with China’s development. I believe a China that is stable and dedicated to development, a China that is down-to-earth and pressing ahead with fortitude, and a China that is confident, open and sharing will surely be a strong force for global prosperity and stability.
Looking at the near term, both the dynamism and momentum of China’s growth are strong. In the first two months of this year, the Chinese economy showed an  encouraging momentum of rebound. Major indicators including consumption and investment picked up. Employment and prices were broadly stable. Market expectations improved notably. The manufacturing PMI has remained above the 50-point mark. Several international organizations have revised up their forecasts for China’s growth this year. Perhaps more telling than the statistics is the actual situation on the ground. Take Hainan, the seat of the Boao Forum, for example. In the past, tourism usually boomed during the week of the Spring Festival holiday. Now we are seeing the “golden tourism week” extending to “golden month” and even “golden season” as the island sees a steady inflow of tourists and a sustained boom in offshore duty-free sales. It is a good indicator of the resilience, potential and vibrancy of the Chinese economy. It is also strong proof that the fundamentals underpinning China’s long-term growth are robust and China’s economic and social policies are sound and effective. Going forward, we will continue to prioritize stability, seek progress while maintaining stability, consolidate and build on the momentum of recovery and work for sustained and overall improvement in the economic performance. We will combine the strategy of expanding domestic demand with deepening supply-side structural reform to make China’s market even bigger. We will roll out new measures to increase market access, improve the business climate and ensure the delivery of projects to create a better institutional environment that enables SOEs to take new initiative, private companies to break new ground and foreign companies to make new investment. We will effectively prevent and defuse major risks, safeguard the overall stability of China’s financial sector in particular, and guard against systemic risks. We have the confidence and ability to sail the giant ship of the Chinese economy steadily ahead against all winds and waves, and make even greater contributions to the global economy.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
There is another big event in Asia this year. That is the 19th Asian Games to be held in Hangzhou of China this autumn. The pandemic may have postponed the Games, but it also made us look even more forward to this rendezvous. The coastlines in Hainan and the West Lake in Hangzhou are just two of the many beautiful places across China. We welcome you to visit more places. Where there are scenic areas, there is new economy and business opportunities for win-win cooperation. I am confident that as we join hands to meet challenges through cooperation, and promote development with an open and inclusive mind, we will bring greater certainty to Asia and the world, and usher in an even brighter future for humankind.
To conclude, I wish this year’s Boao Forum for Asia a full success.
Thank you."
"Xi Jinping
President of the People’s Republic of China
At the invitation of President Vladimir Putin, I will soon pay a state visit to the Russian Federation. Russia was the first country I visited after I was elected President ten years ago. Over the past decade, I have made eight visits to Russia. I came each time with high expectations and returned with fruitful results, opening a new chapter for China-Russia relations together with President Putin.
China and Russia are each other’s biggest neighbor and comprehensive strategic partner of coordination. We are both major countries in the world and permanent members of the UN Security Council. Both countries uphold an independent foreign policy and see our relationship as a high priority in our diplomacy.
There is a clear historical logic and strong internal driving force for the growth of China-Russia relations. Over the past ten years, we have come a long way in our wide-ranging cooperation and made significant strides into the new era.
— High-level interactions have played a key strategic role in leading China-Russia relations.
We have established a whole set of mechanisms for high-level interactions and multi-faceted cooperation which provide important systemic and institutional safeguards for the growth of the bilateral ties. Over the years, I have maintained a close working relationship with President Putin. We have met 40 times on bilateral and international occasions. Together we have drawn the blueprint for the bilateral relations and cooperation in various fields, and have had timely communication on major international and regional issues of mutual interest, providing firm stewardship for the sustained, sound and stable growth of China-Russia relations.
— Our two sides have cemented political mutual trust and fostered a new model of major-country relations.
Guided by a vision of lasting friendship and win-win cooperation, China and Russia are committed to no-alliance, no-confrontation and not targeting any third party in developing our ties. We firmly support each other in following a development path suited to our respective national realities and support each other’s development and rejuvenation. The bilateral relationship has grown more mature and resilient. It is brimming with new dynamism and vitality, setting a fine example for developing a new model of major-country relations featuring mutual respect, peaceful coexistence and win-win cooperation.
— Our two sides have put in place an all-round and multi-tiered cooperation framework.
Thanks to the joint efforts of both sides, China-Russia trade exceeded US$190 billion last year, up by 116 percent from ten years ago. China has been Russia’s largest trading partner for 13 years running. We have seen steady increase in our two-way investment. Our cooperation on major projects in such fields as energy, aviation, space and connectivity is moving forward steadily. Our collaboration in scientific and technological innovation, cross-border e-commerce and other emerging areas is showing a strong momentum. Our cooperation at the sub-national level is also booming. All this has brought tangible benefits to both the Chinese and the Russian peoples and provided unceasing driving force for our respective development and rejuvenation.
— Our two sides have acted on the vision of lasting friendship and steadily strengthened our traditional friendship.
On the occasion of commemorating the 20th anniversary of the
China-Russia Treaty of Good-Neighborliness and Friendly Cooperation
, President Putin and I announced the extension of the Treaty and added new dimensions to it. Our two sides have held eight “theme years” at the national level and continued to write new chapters for China-Russia friendship and cooperation. Our two peoples have stood by and rooted for each other in the fight against COVID, which once again proves that “a friend in need is a friend indeed”.
— Our two sides have had close coordination on the international stage and fulfilled our responsibilities as major countries.
China and Russia are firmly committed to safeguarding the UN-centered international system, the international order underpinned by international law, and the basic norms of international relations based on the purposes and principles of the UN Charter. We have stayed in close communication and coordination in the UN, the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, BRICS, the G20 and other multilateral mechanisms, and worked together for a multi-polar world and greater democracy in international relations. We have been active in practicing true multilateralism, promoting the common values of humanity, and championing the building of a new type of international relations and a community with a shared future for mankind.
Looking back on the extraordinary journey of China-Russia relations over the past 70 years and more, we feel strongly that our relationship has not reached easily where it is today, and that our friendship is growing steadily and must be cherished by us all. China and Russia have found a right path of state-to-state interactions. This is essential for the relationship to stand the test of changing international circumstances, a lesson borne out by both history and reality.
My upcoming visit to Russia will be a journey of friendship, cooperation and peace. I look forward to working with President Putin to jointly adopt a new vision, a new blueprint and new measures for the growth of China-Russia comprehensive strategic partnership of coordination in the years to come.
To this end, our two sides need to enhance coordination and planning. As we focus on our respective cause of development and rejuvenation, we should get creative in our thinking, create new opportunities and inject new impetus. It is important that we increase mutual trust and bring out the potential of bilateral cooperation to keep China-Russia relations at a high level.
Our two sides need to raise both the quality and quantity of investment and economic cooperation and step up policy coordination to create favorable conditions for the high-quality development of our investment cooperation. We need to boost two-way trade, foster more convergence of interests and areas of cooperation, and promote the complementary and synchronized development of traditional trade and emerging areas of cooperation. We need to make sustained efforts to synergize the Belt and Road Initiative and the Eurasian Economic Union, so as to provide more institutional support for bilateral and regional cooperation.
Our two sides need to step up people-to-people and cultural exchanges and ensure the success of China-Russia Years of Sports Exchange. We should make good use of the sub-national cooperation mechanisms to facilitate more interactions between sister provinces/states and cities. We should encourage personnel exchanges and push for the resumption of tourism cooperation. We should make available better summer camps, jointly-run schools and other programs to steadily enhance the mutual understanding and friendship between our peoples, especially between the youth.
The world today is going through profound changes unseen in a century. The historical trend of peace, development and win-win cooperation is unstoppable. The prevailing trends of world multi-polarity, economic globalization and greater democracy in international relations are irreversible. On the other hand, our world is confronted with complex and intertwined traditional and non-traditional security challenges, damaging acts of hegemony, domination and bullying, and long and tortuous global economic recovery. Countries around the world are deeply concerned and eager to find a cooperative way out of the crisis.
In March 2013, when speaking at the Moscow State Institute of International Relations, I observed that countries are linked with and dependent on one another at a level never seen before, and that mankind, living in the same global village, have increasingly emerged as a community with a shared future in which everyone’s interests are closely entwined. Since then, I have proposed the Belt and Road Initiative, the Global Development Initiative, the Global Security Initiative, and the Global Civilization Initiative on different occasions. All these have enriched our vision for a community with a shared future for mankind and provided practical pathways toward it. They are part of China’s response to the changes of the world, of our times, and of the historic trajectory.
Through these ten years, the common values of humanity -- peace, development, equity, justice, democracy and freedom -- have taken deeper roots in the heart of the people. An open, inclusive, clean and beautiful world with lasting peace, universal security and common prosperity has become the shared aspiration of more and more countries. The international community has recognized that no country is superior to others, no model of governance is universal, and no single country should dictate the international order. The common interest of all humankind is in a world that is united and peaceful, rather than divided and volatile.
Since last year, there has been an all-round escalation of the Ukraine crisis. China has all along upheld an objective and impartial position based on the merits of the issue, and actively promoted peace talks. I have put forth several proposals, i.e., observing the purposes and principles of the UN Charter, respect of the legitimate security concerns of all countries, supporting all efforts conducive to the peaceful settlement of the crisis, and ensuring the stability of global industrial and supply chains. They have become China’s fundamental principles for addressing the Ukraine crisis.
Not long ago, we released
China’s Position on the Political Settlement of the Ukraine Crisis
, which takes into account the legitimate concerns of all parties and reflects the broadest common understanding of the international community on the crisis. It has been constructive in mitigating the spillovers of the crisis and facilitating its political settlement. There is no simple solution to a complex issue. We believe that as long as all parties embrace the vision of common, comprehensive, cooperative and sustainable security, and pursue equal-footed, rational and results-oriented dialogue and consultation, they will find a reasonable way to resolve the crisis as well as a broad path toward a world of lasting peace and common security.
To run the world’s affairs well, one must first and foremost run its own affairs well. The Chinese people, under the leadership of the Communist Party of China, are striving in unity to advance the rejuvenation of the Chinese nation on all fronts through the Chinese path to modernization. Chinese modernization is characterized by the following features: it is the modernization of a huge population, the modernization of common prosperity for all, the modernization of material and cultural-ethical advancement, the modernization of harmony between humanity and nature, and the modernization of peaceful development. These distinctive Chinese features are the crystallization of our practices and explorations over the years, and reflect our profound understanding of international experience. Going forward, we will steadfastly advance the cause of Chinese modernization, strive to realize high-quality development, and expand high-standard opening up. I believe that this will bring new development opportunities to Russia and all countries in the world.
Just as every new year starts with spring, every success starts with actions. We have every reason to expect that China and Russia, as fellow travelers on the journey of development and rejuvenation, will make new and greater contributions to human advancement."
"Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
Good morning.
On behalf of the Chinese government and people, and also in my own name, I would like to extend warm congratulations to the convening of today’s meeting.
Humanity lives in a community with a shared future. Be it in overcoming the COVID-19 pandemic, or in enhancing biodiversity protection and achieving sustainable development globally, solidarity and cooperation is the only effective way to address global challenges. A sound ecosystem is essential for the prosperity of civilization. We must work together to promote harmonious co-existence between man and Nature, build a community of all life on the Earth, and create a clean and beautiful world for us all.
—
We need to build global consensus on biodiversity protection,
jointly work for the conclusion of the Post-2020 Global Biodiversity Framework, and identify targets and pathways for global biodiversity protection.
—
We need to push forward the global process of biodiversity protection,
turn ambitions into action, support developing countries in capacity-building, and coordinate efforts to address climate change, biodiversity loss and other global challenges.
—
We need to promote green development through biodiversity protection,
speed up the green transition of development modes and lifestyle, and leverage the Global Development Initiative (GDI) to deliver greater benefits to people of all countries.
—
We need to uphold a fair and equitable global order on biodiversity protection,
firmly defend true multilateralism, firmly support the UN-centered international system and the international order underpinned by international law, and form strong synergy for protecting the Earth, our common homeland.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
China has made active efforts to promote ecological progress and biodiversity protection. We have continuously strengthened biodiversity mainstreaming, applied a system of ecological conservation red lines, established a protected areas system with national parks as the mainstay, carried out major biodiversity protection projects, and conducted most stringent enforcement and supervision. A large number of rare and endangered species have been placed under effective protection, and the diversity, stability and sustainability of the ecosystem have kept improving. We have found a path of biodiversity protection with Chinese characteristics.
Going forward, China will continue to advance ecological progress, and plan its development in the context of promoting harmonious co-existence between man and Nature. We will respond to the Action Plan for the UN Decade on Ecosystem Restoration, and launch a large number of key projects on biodiversity protection and restoration. We will deepen international exchanges and cooperation, and support international forums on biodiversity. We will do our best to provide support and assistance to fellow developing countries through the Belt and Road Initiative International Green Development Coalition (BRIGC) and the Kunming Biodiversity Fund, so as to elevate global biodiversity governance to a new height.
As an old Chinese saying goes, “All living things should flourish without harming each other; all ways of life should thrive without hindering each other.” Let us work together to open a new chapter in building a community of all life on the Earth and create a bright future of harmonious co-existence between man and Nature.
Thank you."
"Keynote Speech by H.E. Xi Jinping
President of the People’s Republic of China
At the Opening Ceremony of
The First China-Arab States Summit
Riyadh, 9 December 2022
Distinguished Colleagues,
Friends,
Good afternoon!
At the outset, I wish to thank Saudi Arabia for the warm hospitality and thoughtful arrangement. I am very pleased to join you for the first China-Arab States Summit. The Summit is a milestone in the history of China-Arab relations, and will take us to a more promising future of friendship and cooperation.
China and Arab states enjoy a long history of friendly exchanges. We have come to know and befriend each other through the ancient Silk Road. We have shared weal and woe in our respective struggles for national liberation. We have conducted win-win cooperation in the tide of economic globalization. And we have upheld fairness and justice in the changing international environment. Together, China and Arab states have nurtured the spirit of friendship featuring “solidarity and mutual assistance, equality and mutual benefit, and inclusiveness and mutual learning”.
Solidarity and mutual assistance is a distinct feature of China-Arab friendship.
We trust each other, and have forged a brotherly friendship. We firmly support each other on issues involving our respective core interests. We work hand in hand and make progress together to realize the dream of national rejuvenation. We brave wind and storms together in fighting the COVID pandemic. The China-Arab future-oriented strategic partnership of comprehensive cooperation and common development is unbreakable.
Equality and mutual benefit is a constant driver for our friendship.
China and Arab states have set an example for South-South cooperation in pursuing mutually beneficial collaboration. The two sides have established 17 cooperation mechanisms under the framework of the China-Arab States Cooperation Forum. Over the past decade, our trade has grown by US$100 billion, with the total volume exceeding US$300 billion; China’s direct investment in Arab states was up by 2.6 times, with the stock of investment reaching US$23 billion; over 200 Belt and Road projects have been carried out, benefiting nearly two billion people of the two sides.
Inclusiveness and mutual learning is a key value inherent in our friendship.
We appreciate each other’s civilizations, and have written a splendid history of mutual learning. We keep drawing wisdom from each other’s time-honored civilizations, and jointly promote “peace, harmony, integrity, and truth”, the very essence of civilization. We stay true to our principles despite the clamour for “clash of civilizations”, advocate together inter-civilizational dialogue, oppose discrimination against particular civilizations, and endeavor to safeguard the diversity of world civilizations.
Colleagues,
Friends,
The world today is in a new period of turbulence and transformation. The Middle East is undergoing new and profound changes. The aspiration of the Arab people for peace and development is much more compelling, and their call for equity and justice is stronger than ever.
As strategic partners, China and Arab states should carry forward the spirit of China-Arab friendship, strengthen solidarity and cooperation, and foster a closer China-Arab community with a shared future
, so as to deliver greater benefits to our peoples and advance the cause of human progress.
— We should stay independent and defend our common interests.
China supports Arab states in independently exploring development paths suited to their national conditions and holding their future firmly in their own hands. China is ready to deepen strategic mutual trust with Arab states, and firmly support each other in safeguarding sovereignty, territorial integrity and national dignity. Our two sides should jointly uphold the principle of non-interference in other countries’ internal affairs, practice true multilateralism, and defend the legitimate rights and interests of developing countries.
— We should focus on economic development and promote win-win cooperation.
We should strengthen synergy between our development strategies, and promote high-quality Belt and Road cooperation. We should consolidate cooperation in traditional areas including economy and trade, energy and infrastructure development. In the meantime, we should strengthen new sources of growth such as green and low-carbon development, health and medical services, and investment and finance, and expand new frontiers including aviation and aerospace, digital economy and peaceful use of nuclear energy. We should also tackle major challenges like food security and energy security. China will work with the Arab side to implement the Global Development Initiative (GDI) and drive sustainable development of South-South cooperation.
— We should uphold regional peace and strive for common security.
China supports the Arab side in promoting political settlement of hotspot and challenging issues with Arab wisdom, and build a common, comprehensive, cooperative and sustainable security architecture in the Middle East. China urges the international community to respect the role of the Middle East people as masters of their own affairs, and add positive energy to the security and stability of the region. China welcomes the Arab side to participate in the Global Security Initiative (GSI), and will continue to contribute Chinese wisdom to promoting peace and tranquility in the Middle East.
— We should increase exchanges among civilizations to enhance mutual understanding and trust.
We need to increase personnel exchange, deepen people-to-people cooperation, and promote the exchange of governance experience. We need to jointly oppose Islamophobia, carry out cooperation on deradicalization, and reject association of terrorism with any particular ethnic group or religion. We need to advocate humanity’s common values of peace, development, equity, justice, democracy and freedom, and set an example of inter-civilizational exchanges and mutual learning in the new era.
We are pleased to see the decision by the Summit to build a China-Arab community with a shared future in the new era and to formulate the
Outline of the Comprehensive Cooperation Plan Between China and Arab States
, laying out the blueprint for future China-Arab relations. As the first follow-up step of that decision, China will, in the next three to five years, work with the Arab side to advance eight major cooperation initiatives in areas including development support, food security, public health, green innovation, energy security, inter-civilizational dialogue, youth development, and security and stability. China has briefed the Arab side on the details of the eight initiatives, and will work with the Arab side to promote their early implementation and strive for early harvest.
Colleagues,
Friends,
The Palestinian issue bears on peace and stability in the Middle East. The historical injustices done to the Palestinian people should not be left unattended indefinitely. The legitimate rights and interests of a nation are not up for trade, and the demand to establish an independent state shall not be denied. The international community should stay firm in its commitment to the two-state solution and the principle of “land for peace”, make resolute efforts to promote peace talks, provide more humanitarian and development assistance to Palestine, and strive for a just settlement of the Palestinian issue at an early date. Recently, through the efforts of Arab states, important progress has been made in Intra-Palestinian reconciliation. China welcomes these developments. I would like to reiterate that China firmly supports the establishment of an independent State of Palestine that enjoys full sovereignty based on the 1967 border and with east Jerusalem as its capital. China supports Palestine in becoming a full member of the United Nations, and will continue to provide humanitarian assistance to Palestine, support livelihood projects in the country, and increase donations to the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA).
Colleagues,
Friends,
Recently, the Communist Party of China successfully convened its 20th National Congress. The Congress laid out the tasks and path of advancing the rejuvenation of the Chinese nation on all fronts through Chinese modernization, and provided a blueprint for China’s future development. China will stay committed to upholding world peace, promoting common development, and building a community with a shared future for mankind. China remains firm in pursuing an independent foreign policy of peace and upholding international fairness and justice. China is committed to promoting friendship and cooperation with other countries based on the Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence, and will work to deepen and expand global partnerships. Acting on a mutually beneficial strategy of opening up, China will continue to promote high-standard opening up and advance high-quality Belt and Road cooperation. By doing so, we wish to create new opportunities for Arab states and all other countries with China’s new development.
Colleagues,
Friends,
A great cause begins with a dream and turns into reality through hard work. Let us carry forward the spirit of China-Arab friendship, jointly build a China-Arab community with a shared future in the new era, and usher in an even brighter future for our relations.
Thank you!"
"Keynote Speech by H.E. Xi Jinping
President of the People’s Republic of China
At the China-GCC Summit
Riyadh, 9 December 2022
Distinguished Colleagues,
Secretary General Dr. Nayef Falah Al Hajraf,
Good afternoon!
At the outset, I wish to express heartfelt appreciation to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia for hosting the China-Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) Summit. It gives me great pleasure to join you in planning for the future of China-GCC relations.
The friendly exchange between China and GCC countries goes back nearly two millennia in history. Throughout those years, the two peoples interacted with each other continuously along the ancient Silk Road inspired by the “Eastern wisdom” of peace, harmony and truth. In 1981, China established contact with the GCC upon its inception. Forty plus years on, the two sides have written together a splendid chapter of solidarity, mutual assistance and win-win cooperation.
The leapfrog growth of China-GCC relations is attributed to the profound mutual trust. China and GCC countries have all along supported each other’s sovereignty and independence, respected each other’s development paths, upheld equality between countries regardless of their size, and stood firm in defending multilateralism.
The leapfrog growth is attributed to the high degree of complementarity. China has a vast consumer market and a complete industrial system, while the GCC, with rich energy and resources, is embracing diversified economic development. This makes the two sides natural partners of cooperation.
The leapfrog growth is attributed to the empathy of the two peoples. Both belonging to the family of Eastern civilizations, China and GCC countries have similar culture and values. And the peoples enjoy close bonds of friendship.
The leapfrog growth is also attributed to the solidarity between the two sides in times of adversity. Against regional and international uncertainties as well as challenges such as the financial crisis, the COVID-19 pandemic and major natural disasters, the two sides have come to each other’s aid and navigated through the difficulties together.
Colleagues,
In response to the profound changes unseen in a century, GCC countries have strengthened themselves through unity, achieved economic growth despite COVID-19, and worked vigorously for political settlement of regional hotspots and thorny issues. They have made the GCC the most dynamic regional organization in the Middle East and the Gulf. China highly commends you for all this. Standing at a historical crossroads, we should carry forward the tradition of China-GCC friendship, and take the establishment of the China-GCC strategic partnership as an opportunity to enrich the strategic substance of this relationship.
— We should be partners for greater solidarity.
We need to further consolidate political mutual trust and firmly support each other’s core interests. We need to jointly uphold the principle of non-interference in internal affairs, practice true multilateralism, and defend the common interests of all developing countries.
— We should be partners for common development.
We need to better synergize development strategies and leverage our respective strengths to cultivate driving forces for development. China looks forward to working with all parties to advance and implement the Global Development Initiative (GDI) and follow through on the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, with a view to promoting regional development and prosperity.
— We should be partners for common security.
China will continue to firmly support GCC countries in safeguarding their security, and support the efforts by regional countries to resolve differences through dialogue and consultation and to build a Gulf collective security architecture. China welcomes the participation of GCC countries in the Global Security Initiative (GSI) in a joint effort to uphold regional peace and stability.
— We should be partners for cultural prosperity.
We need to enhance interactions between our peoples, increase cultural exchanges, draw on each other’s fine cultural achievements, and promote the rich values of Eastern civilizations, so as to contribute our share to the development and progress of human civilizations.
Colleagues,
In the next three to five years, China is ready to work with GCC countries in the following priority areas:
First, setting up a new paradigm of all-dimensional energy cooperation.
China will continue to import large quantities of crude oil on a long-term basis from GCC countries, and purchase more LNG. We will strengthen our cooperation in the upstream sector, engineering services, as well as storage, transportation and refinery of oil and gas. The Shanghai Petroleum and Natural Gas Exchange platform will be fully utilized for RMB settlement in oil and gas trade. The two sides will work more closely on clean and low-carbon technologies involving hydrogen, energy storage, wind and photovoltaic power and smart power grids, as well as localized production of new energy equipment. We will jointly establish a China-GCC forum on peaceful use of nuclear technology and a China-GCC nuclear security demonstration center. China will provide 300 training opportunities to GCC countries on peaceful use of nuclear energy and technology.
Second, making new progress in finance and investment cooperation.
China and GCC countries could collaborate on financial regulation and facilitate the entry into China’s capital market for GCC companies. China will work with the GCC to set up a joint investment commission and support cooperation between sovereign wealth funds from both sides in various forms. The two sides could explore setting up a China-GCC forum on industrial and investment cooperation, strengthen investment cooperation on digital economy and green development, and build a working mechanism on investment and economic cooperation. The two sides could start currency swap cooperation, deepen digital currency cooperation and advance the m-CBDC Bridge project.
Third, expanding new areas of cooperation on innovation, science and technology.
China is ready to build big data and cloud computing centers with GCC countries, strengthen 5G and 6G technology cooperation, build together innovation and entrepreneurship incubators, and implement ten digital economy projects in such areas as cross-border e-commerce and communications network. A China-GCC cooperation mechanism in meteorological science and technology will be set up, and the two sides could convene a seminar on climate response.
Fourth, seeking new breakthroughs in aerospace cooperation.
China will carry out a string of cooperation projects with GCC countries in remote sensing and communications satellite, space utilization, and aerospace infrastructure. The two sides could select and train astronauts together, and China welcomes GCC astronauts to its space station for joint missions and space science experiments with their Chinese colleagues. China welcomes GCC countries’ participation in payloads cooperation in its aerospace missions including Chang’e and Tianwen, and will consider establishing a China-GCC joint center for lunar and deep space exploration.
Fifth, nurturing new highlights in language and cultural cooperation.
China will cooperate with 300 universities, middle and primary schools in GCC countries on Chinese language education, work with GCC countries to set up 300 Chinese language smart classrooms, provide 3,000 “Chinese Bridge” summer/winter camp opportunities, and set up Chinese language learning and testing centers and online Chinese classes. The two sides could hold a China-GCC language and culture forum, and compile a bilingual library for people-to-people and cultural exchanges and mutual learning.
Colleagues,
China and GCC countries share the glorious mission of developing and revitalizing our nations. Our relations are both time-honored and young. Let us build on our achievements and work together to deliver an even brighter future of China-GCC relations.
Thank you."
"Comrades and friends!
Today, we hold the grand memorial meeting at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing to mourn our beloved Comrade Jiang Zemin with deep feeling of grief.
At this moment, the people in Party and government organs, enterprises and institutions, villages, schools, armed forces, and urban neighborhoods across the country, the staff with Chinese embassies and consulates as well as institutions stationed abroad, compatriots in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (SAR), the Macao SAR, and Taiwan region, as well as overseas Chinese, are together with us to cherish the memories of Comrade Jiang's great achievements and outstanding qualities, and to express our grief.
The whole Party, the entire military and the Chinese people of all ethnic groups are in profound grief for the loss of such a great man as Comrade Jiang Zemin. People and leaders from all over the world and international friends in various fields have also expressed their heartfelt condolences.
Comrade Jiang was an outstanding leader enjoying high prestige acknowledged by the whole Party, the entire military and the Chinese people of all ethnic groups, a great Marxist, a great proletarian revolutionary, statesman, military strategist and diplomat, a long-tested communist fighter, and an outstanding leader of the great cause of socialism with Chinese characteristics. He was the core of the Party's third generation of central collective leadership and the principal founder of the Theory of Three Represents.
We hold Comrade Jiang in high esteem and cherish the memories of him, because he devoted his whole life and energy to the Chinese people, he fought all his life for the national independence, the liberation of the people, and the realization of national prosperity and the people's wellbeing.
In particular, the great achievements made by the Party and the country in the 13 years after the fourth plenary session of the 13th CPC Central Committee in 1989 are inseparable from the great talent and vision as well as superb political leadership Comrade Jiang displayed, and the key role he played. Comrade Jiang made immortal feats for the Party and the people, which has won him the heartfelt love of the whole Party, the entire military and the Chinese people of all ethnic groups, and wide acclaim from the international community.
Comrades and friends!
Ever since his adolescent years, Comrade Jiang committed himself to seek the truth and took an active part in the people's revolutionary movements. A native of Yangzhou City, Jiangsu Province, he was born in the family of a patriotic intellectual in August 1926, and was enlightened by patriotism and ideas of democratic revolution from a young age. He participated in the patriotic and progressive student movements led by underground CPC organizations in the winter of 1943, joined the Party in April 1946, and since then devoted his whole life to the Party and the people.
After the founding of the People's Republic of China (PRC), Comrade Jiang worked in enterprises, scientific research institutions, and state ministries and commissions. In every post, he fulfilled his duty and worked hard, dedicated his life to the socialist revolution and construction, and did a lot of pioneering work in reform and opening up. He was elected member of the CPC Central Committee at the 12th CPC National Congress.
After 1985, Comrade Jiang served as mayor of Shanghai, deputy secretary and then secretary of the CPC Shanghai Municipal Committee. He led the formulation of the economic development and urban construction plans of Shanghai, put forward the development policy of building Shanghai into an open, multi-functional and highly civilized modern socialist city with rational industrial structure and advanced science and technology by the end of the 20th century. He emphasized building Pudong into an international, pivotal and modern world-class new urban district. He also actively promoted the institutional arrangements to address the people's practical concerns, and made outstanding contributions to breaking new ground in Shanghai's reform, opening up and socialist modernization. He was elected member of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee at the first plenary session of the 13th CPC Central Committee.
In the late spring and early summer of 1989, a severe political disturbance took place in China. Comrade Jiang upheld and implemented the CPC Central Committee's correct decision on taking a clear stand against the turmoil, defending China's socialist state power and safeguarding the fundamental interests of the people, and effectively maintained the stability of Shanghai by relying on the solid support of Party members, officials and residents.
Comrades and friends!
In June 1989, Comrade Jiang was elected member of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee and general secretary of the CPC Central Committee at the fourth plenary session of the 13th CPC Central Committee. In November 1989, it was decided at the fifth plenary session of the 13th CPC Central Committee that Jiang served as chairman of the Central Military Commission (CMC) of the CPC, and the Party's third generation of central collective leadership with Comrade Jiang at its core was established as a result.
Comrade Jiang assumed the main leadership positions of the Party and the military when our country was facing serious external pressure and internal difficulties, and his appointment can be described as being at a critical time. Comrade Jiang had said firmly: "For the cause of the Party and the people, I would dedicate myself to my work and spare no effort until my last day."
Between the late 1980s and the early 1990s, severe political disturbances erupted in the international arena and in China. The development of socialism in the world experienced serious twists and turns. Some Western countries imposed so-called sanctions on China, and the development of China's socialist cause faced unprecedented difficulties and pressures. At this historic juncture critical to the future and destiny of the Party and the state, Comrade Jiang led the central collective leadership of the CPC, firmly relying on the whole Party, the entire military and the Chinese people of all ethnic groups, in making achievements in the following areas: unswervingly taking economic development as the central task, unequivocally upholding the Four Cardinal Principles, adhering to reform and opening-up, resolutely working on rectifications for better governance, comprehensively strengthening ideological work, carried out in-depth Party building and the fight against corruption, strengthening the ties between the Party and the people, and actively waging diplomatic struggle, resolutely safeguarding national independence, dignity, security and stability. All these safeguarded the great cause of socialism with Chinese characteristics. As a result, the situation for the reform and development was stabilized and a solid foundation laid for China's development.
During the 13 years between the fourth plenary session of the 13th CPC Central Committee and the 16th CPC National Congress, China's reform, opening-up and socialist modernization drive unfolded with great momentum amid a highly volatile international situation. In a complex environment both abroad and at home, Comrade Jiang led the central collective leadership in holding high the great banners of Marxism-Leninism, Mao Zedong Thought and Deng Xiaoping Theory, unswervingly adhering to the Party's basic line and uniting the Party and the Chinese people of all ethnic groups to uphold and develop socialism with Chinese characteristics.
He put forward the basic policy of seizing opportunities to deepen reform, further open up, promote development and maintain stability. He expounded on the 12 major relationships that should properly handled in the development of socialist modernization, which deepened our understanding of the laws that underlies socialist modernization. Stressing the importance of never letting opportunities to slip through our fingers, blazing new trails rather than following the beaten track, he led the Party in formulating and implementing a series of guidelines, policies and major strategies to promote reform, development and stability.
He led the establishment of the basic program of the Party for the primary stage of socialism, which provided strong guidance for upholding and developing socialism with Chinese characteristics.
Comrade Jiang led us in defining building a socialist market economy as an objective of reform and set a basic framework in this regard, led the establishment of a basic economic system for the primary stage of socialism under which public ownership is the mainstay and diverse forms of ownership develop together, as well as an income distribution system under which distribution according to work is the mainstay while multiple forms of distribution exist alongside, and led us in forging ahead with reforms in the economic, political and cultural systems and other fields.
Jiang had forward-looking strategic thinking on building a moderately prosperous society in all respects and realizing the third-step strategic objectives for the modernization drive, noting that in the first two decades of the 21st century, efforts should be concentrated on fully building a moderately prosperous society of a higher standard for the benefit of more than 1 billion people.
He stressed that prosperity provided a nation with a greater say in international arena while backwardness made it vulnerable to attack, and it was imperative for the Party to give top priority to development for governing and rejuvenating the country, focusing wholeheartedly on developing the economy.
He proposed to insist on the combination of "bringing in investment" and "going global" to promote reform and development by opening up. He led China in joining the World Trade Organization, which helped setting a new stage for opening up.
He led us in developing socialist democracy, implementing the basic strategy of law-based governance, developing advanced socialist culture, realizing the smooth return of Hong Kong and Macao, pushing for the two sides of the Taiwan Strait to reach the 1992 Consensus, which embodies the one-China principle, and vigorously carrying out the major struggles against secession and "Taiwan independence".
He remained committed to gain insights into the general trend of the world situation with a global vision, put forward a series of ideas on diplomatic and international strategies, actively promoted the building of a multipolar world, pushed for greater democracy in international relations, respected the diversity of the world, promoted the establishment of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, and led us in breaking new ground on China’s diplomatic front.
He noted that a good job of governing the Party is a prerequisite to a good job of governing the country, and the Party must be governed as strictly as possible. He underscored the commitment to theoretical study, political integrity and rectitude, and proposed to advance the great new project of Party building. He stressed the need to solve the two historical issues of improving the Party’s leadership and governance and reinforcing its ability to resist corruption and ward off risks. He stressed the need to unswervingly improve the Party conduct, build integrity and combat corruption, and always maintain the vigor and vitality, dashing spirit and integrity of communists, and thus ensure the Party’s purity and advanced nature.
He led us in correctly handling the relationship between reform, development and stability, making impressive and new progress in material, political and cultural-ethical advancement and the Party building, and successfully advancing the cause of socialism with Chinese characteristics into the 21st century.
Comrade Jiang, with a thorough understanding of the trend of the world’s new military transformation, presided over the formulation of the military strategic policy for the new period and emphasized the need to advance military transformation with Chinese characteristics, unswervingly follow a distinctive Chinese approach of having fewer but better troops, make the people's armed forces more revolutionary, modern and standardized.
Jiang once said: "To put it in a nutshell, the issue I have focused my attention on over the years is whether our army can fight to win while never degrade in character."
He stressed that the Party's absolute leadership over the military must be unswervingly upheld, and emphasized that the troops must be qualified politically, competent militarily, and have good conduct, strict discipline, and strong logistical support. They must preserve the nature and the character of the military as the people's armed forces, make winning local wars in the information age the focal point in preparation for military struggle and accelerate the development of national defense as well as weaponry and equipment.
He also made the strategic decision that the military, armed police forces and judicial, procuratorial and public security organs must be stopped from engaging in business activities. Under his leadership and efforts, great achievements had been made in modernizing China's national defense and military.
Committed to emancipation of mind, seeking truth from facts, advancing with the times and respecting the practice and the people, Comrade Jiang put forward a series of new ideas, viewpoints and judgments on building socialism with Chinese characteristics, and made outstanding contributions to upholding and developing the Party’s basic theory, line, program and the accumulation of experience.
In particular, by pooling the wisdom of the whole Party, he formulated the Theory of Three Represents, which further answers the questions of what socialism is and how to build it, and creatively addresses what kind of Party to build and how to build it. The theory has deepened our understanding of rules to advance the cause of socialism with Chinese characteristics and strengthen Party building under the new conditions. With new ideas, viewpoints and judgments, it serves as a continuation, enrichment and development of Marxism-Leninism, Mao Zedong Thought and Deng Xiaoping Theory.
In the 13 years since the fourth plenary session of the 13th CPC Central Committee, Comrade Jiang led us in calmly dealing with a series of international emergencies concerning China's sovereignty and security, overcoming difficulties and risks cropping up in the political and economic spheres and those brought by natural disasters, in particular successfully coping with the impact of the 1997 Asian financial crisis and winning a victory in the disaster relief efforts during the heavy floods in 1998, as a result, navigating China's reform, opening-up and socialist modernization in the right direction.
Comrade Jiang attached great importance to the major strategic issues that were vital to the cause of the Party and the people. When preparing for the 16th CPC National Congress, Jiang proposed that he would no longer serve in the leading posts of the Party and that he would retire from the CPC Central Committee to facilitate the leadership transition of the Party and the state. The CPC Central Committee accepted his proposal. In 2004, he offered to retire from his posts as chairman of the CMC of the CPC and chairman of the CMC of the PRC, fully displaying his great foresight for the development of the cause of the Party and the state.
After retiring from leadership posts, Comrade Jiang firmly upheld and support the work of the CPC Central Committee. He cared for the great cause of socialism with Chinese characteristics, and resolutely supported the efforts to improve Party conduct and combat corruption. In 2006, Jiang was personally in charge of compiling and finalizing the first, second and third volumes of "Selected Works of Jiang Zemin." The works are a major textbook that people can use to learn and advance the great cause of socialism with Chinese characteristics and the great new project of Party building.
Comrade Jiang developed a distinctive revolutionary spirit and demeanor in the long period of revolutionary practices. He was far-sighted, and could make correct assessments of different situations. He always observed and reflected on issues by taking into consideration the general development trends of China and the world, as well as the overall work of the Party and the state, continuously advancing theoretical innovation and innovation in other fields. Jiang was firm in his convictions and decisive in actions. He always put the Party and the people first, and unswervingly adhered to the ideals and beliefs of communists. At critical moments, Jiang had the great courage to make resolute decisions and theoretical innovation. Jiang valued practice and kept pace with the times. He always grasped the trends and opportunities of the times, summing up experience and seeking new ways based on the vibrant practice of the Party and the people, thus advancing the work of the Party and the state in a down-to-earth yet enterprising manner. Jiang respected and cared for the people, always paying close attention to their security and well-being, and assessing and advancing work based on the fundamental interests of the greatest possible majority of the Chinese people. His revolutionary spirit and demeanor will forever be remembered, and will educate and motivate us to stride forward.
Jiang's death is an inestimable loss to the CPC, the Chinese military and the Chinese people of all ethnic groups. The CPC Central Committee calls on the whole Party, the entire military and the people of all ethnic groups to turn grief into strength, carry forward Jiang's legacy and express grief with concrete actions, and continue to write new chapters in the development of the cause of the Party and the state on the path of socialism with Chinese characteristics.
Marxism is the fundamental guiding ideology, on which our Party and country are founded and thrive. The most valuable asset that Comrade Jiang has left us is the Theory of Three Represents. "I raised this theory after a long period of reflection," he said. "The Theory of Three Represents did not come out of thin air, but out of our constant exploration and pioneering in theory and practice over the past 13 years." The Theory of Three Represents is the guiding principle that the Party must uphold for a long time to come. On our new journey, we must continue to adapt the basic tenets of Marxism to China's specific realities and fine traditional culture. We must proceed from reality in all matters, and constantly respond to the questions posed by China, by the world, by the people and by the times, so as to maintain the vigor and vitality of Marxism.
The leadership of the CPC offers a fundamental guarantee for the Party and the people to overcome all obstacles in pursuit of the socialist cause. Comrade Jiang once said from the bottom of his heart: "As a veteran CPC member, I sincerely hope that all of us in the Party, especially those in the central leadership, put the Party first and consciously uphold and safeguard the Party leadership in all fields of work. This is where the hope of the Party and the country lies." On the new journey, we must always keep sober-minded and determined. We must strengthen the Four Consciousnesses, reinforce the Four-Sphere Confidence, and ensure the Two Upholds. We must carry forward the great founding spirit of the Party, stay true to our founding mission, have the courage to advance self-reform, to ensure that the Party always serves as the strong leadership core in the course of upholding and developing socialism with Chinese characteristics in the new era.
The path of socialism with Chinese characteristics will allow China to catch up with the times in great strides and play a leading role. In his speech at the ceremony marking the 80th anniversary of the founding of the CPC in 2001, Comrade Jiang stressed that the 80-year practice had taught us that we must unswervingly adhere to our own path, which was the most essential experience we had obtained in summing up our Party's history. On the new journey, we must follow the path of socialism with Chinese characteristics, stick to the Party's basic theory, line and policy, stay confident and build strength, uphold fundamental principles and break new ground, stride forward on the correct path we have chosen to advance national rejuvenation through a Chinese path to modernization.
The people are the fundamental force that determines the future of the Party and the country. Comrade Jiang remained loyal to the people and kept the people in mind. He called for a people-oriented approach and stressed several times that "The interests of the overwhelming majority of the people are the vital and most decisive factor. This is a fundamental viewpoint of Marxism," urging us to always strive to realize, safeguard, and advance the fundamental interests of the people. On the new journey, we must put the people first, serve the people wholeheartedly, further implement the people-centered philosophy of development, develop whole-process people's democracy, maintain a close bond with the people, breathe the same air as the people, share the same future and stay truly connected to them, to make more notable and substantive progress in promoting the people's well-rounded development and prosperity for all.
Reform and opening up is a key move that has determined the future and destiny of contemporary China. Comrade Jiang emphasized: "We should promote institutional, scientific, cultural innovation and innovation in other aspects through theoretical innovation, explore ways to advance in practice, and never become complacent or slack off, and this is the way to govern the Party and the country for a long time to come." On the new journey, we must accurately identify changes, adeptly respond to them, and work to steer them in our favor. We must implement the new development philosophy, create a new development pattern, promote high-quality development, and comprehensively advance reform and opening up. We must continue to improve the system of socialism with Chinese characteristics, advance the modernization of China's system and capacity for governance, so as to gain the edge, seize the initiative and embrace the future.
China cannot develop in isolation from the rest of the world, nor can the world achieve prosperity without China. Comrade Jiang stressed that we must adjust ourselves to the historical trends, promote the establishment of a fair and reasonable new international political and economic order, strive for a long-term peaceful international environment, safeguard China's national security and interests in an all-round way, and continue to make new and greater contributions to the lofty cause of peace and development for mankind. On the new journey, we must bear in mind the interest of the world, hold high the banner of peace, development, cooperation and mutual benefit, and advocate the common values of mankind. We must promote high-quality development of the Belt and Road Initiative, advance the building of a new type of international relations and a community with a shared future for mankind, and move forward hand in hand with all progressive forces in the world.
Having the courage to fight and the fortitude to win is what has made our Party and the Chinese people invincible. Comrade Jiang stressed: "Our Party is leading the people in the great struggle to build socialist modernization, we will inevitably encounter many complicated circumstances, and severe situations at home and abroad, and confrontations and struggles between different social systems and ideologies are often a test for every Party member." "We must be heroic enough to overwhelm all enemies" and "one cannot bow his or her noble head." On the new journey, we must race against the time and strive for success, uphold a fighting spirit to rise to difficulties. We must grasp the historical initiative, foster a firmer sense of purpose, fortitude, and self-belief in the whole Party and among the Chinese people of all ethnic groups so that we are not swayed by fallacies, deterred by intimidation and cowed by pressure, and thus dig deep to overcome all difficulties and challenges on the road ahead.
Comrades and friends!
Comrade Jiang Zemin has parted from us forever. But his name and reputation, deeds of merit, thoughts, and outstanding qualities will go down in history and remain immortal in the hearts of the people for generations to come. The whole Party, the military and the Chinese people of all ethnic groups must unite more closely around the Party Central Committee, forge ahead with enterprise and fortitude, and strive in unity to build a modern socialist country in all respects and advance the great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation on all fronts.
Eternal glory to Comrade Jiang Zemin!"
"Remarks by H.E. Xi Jinping
President of the People’s Republic of China
At the 29th APEC Economic Leaders’Meeting
Bangkok, 18 November 2022
Your Excellency Prime Minister Prayut Chan-o-cha,
Colleagues,
It gives me great pleasure to join you in Bangkok, the beautiful City of Angels. This is our first face-to-face meeting since the onset of COVID-19. I wish to extend our hearty appreciation to the government of Thailand, and Prime Minister Prayut in particular, for putting this meeting together.
At present, the COVID-19 pandemic still drags on with cases surging here and there. Global recovery is facing multiple challenges. Unilateralism and protectionism are on the rise. Global industrial and supply chains are under stress. Problems such as inflation and food and energy security remain intricate and challenging.
The Asia-Pacific is our home as well as the powerhouse of global economic growth. Over the past decades, robust economic cooperation in the region has created the “Asia-Pacific miracle” admired across the world. Asia-Pacific cooperation has taken deep roots in the hearts of the people.
Today the world has come to another historical crossroads, and this has made the Asia-Pacific region even more important and prominent in its standing and role.
As an ancient Chinese sage observed, “The wise are free from doubts, the benevolent from anxiety, and the brave from fear.” Facing the new circumstances, we must join hands together to build an Asia-Pacific community with a shared future and take Asia-Pacific cooperation to a new height. To this end, I wish to propose the following.
First, we should uphold international fairness and justice and build an Asia-Pacific of peace and stability.
The region owes decades of its rapid growth to a peaceful and stable environment. This attests to the critical importance of mutual respect, solidarity and cooperation, and consultation among all parties for the greatest denominator when something comes up. We should always assume the vision of common, comprehensive, cooperative and sustainable security, and respect the sovereignty and territorial integrity of all countries. No one should interfere in other countries’ internal affairs, and everyone should respect the development path and social system chosen independently by the people of each country. We should take seriously the legitimate security concerns of every country, and promote peaceful settlement of differences and disputes among countries through dialogue and consultation. We should take an active part in global governance and make the international order more just and reasonable to ensure peace and stability in the Asia-Pacific region and beyond.
Second, we should stay committed to openness and inclusiveness and bring about prosperity for all in the Asia-Pacific.
History has proven time and again that only openness, inclusiveness and win-win cooperation is the right way forward for humanity. We need to continue pursuing open regionalism, strengthen coordination on macroeconomic policies, forge more closely linked regional supply and industrial chains, promote trade and investment liberalization and facilitation, and steadily advance regional economic integration for the early realization of a high-standard Free Trade Area of the Asia-Pacific. We need to make sure that development is for the people and by the people, and that its fruits are shared among the people, and we should promote prosperity for all in the Asia-Pacific. China will work with other parties on the full and high-quality implementation of the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP), and continue working toward joining the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP) and the Digital Economy Partnership Agreement (DEPA), for the purpose of promoting integrated development of the region. China will consider holding the third Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation next year to provide fresh impetus for the development and prosperity of the Asia-Pacific and the world.
Third, we should always strive for green and low-carbon development and ensure a clean and beautiful Asia-Pacific.
Protecting the ecological environment and tackling climate change is a common challenge facing all humanity. We need to enhance economic and technical cooperation, speed up coordinated digital and green development, advance the transition and upgrading of energy, resources, and industrial and consumption structures, and promote green economic and social development. This year we jointly formulated the Bangkok Goals on Bio-Circular-Green (BCG) Economy, which aims to advance ecological and environmental protection and economic development in a coordinated way. China will provide support for its implementation. Last year at the United Nations, I proposed the Global Development Initiative (GDI), calling for enhanced practical cooperation in poverty reduction, food, energy, health and other areas, and urging expedited implementation of the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. I welcome Asia-Pacific countries to take an active part in the Initiative.
Fourth, we should bear in mind our shared future and make the Asia-Pacific a region where all are ready to help each other.
We need to view Asia-Pacific cooperation from a strategic and long-term perspective, uphold APEC’s role as the main channel in regional cooperation, and keep Asia-Pacific cooperation in the right direction. We need to act on the purposes and principles of APEC, and continually deepen the Asia-Pacific partnership featuring mutual trust, inclusiveness and mutually beneficial cooperation. We need to follow the spirit of our Asia-Pacific family, look after one another like passengers in the same boat, and steadily move toward an Asia-Pacific community with a shared future.
Colleagues,
Last month, the 20th National Congress of the Communist Party of China was held successfully, setting the course and providing the blueprint for China’s development for now and the years to come. China is ready to pursue peaceful coexistence and common development with all countries on the basis of mutual respect, equality and mutual benefit. We will advance a broader agenda of opening up across more areas and in greater depth, follow the Chinese path to modernization, put in place new systems for a higher-standard open economy, and continue to share our development opportunities with the world, particularly with the Asia-Pacific region.
As a Thai proverb goes, “You reap what you sow.” We have jointly sown the seed of the Putrajaya Vision. It is time for us to cultivate, nurture, and foster the blossoming flower of common development of the Asia-Pacific!
Thank you."
"Written Speech by H.E. Xi Jinping
President of the People’s Republic of China
At the APEC CEO Summit
Bangkok, 17 November 2022
Representatives of the Business Community,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
It gives me great pleasure to come to the beautiful city of Bangkok for the APEC CEO Summit.
Our world has once again reached a crossroads. Where is it headed? What should we do here in the Asia-Pacific? These questions demand urgent answers.
The 21st century is the Asia-Pacific century. Our region, which accounts for one-third of the world’s population, over 60 percent of the global economy and close to half of global trade, is the most dynamic growth belt in the world. We, members of this region, have come a long way in pursuing economic development, and we will surely write an even more brilliant chapter in the years ahead.
Currently, the Asia-Pacific enjoys overall stability. Cooperation in our region has been steadily advanced, and peace, development and win-win cooperation remain the underlying trend in this region. On the other hand, the world has entered a new period of fluidity and change. Both geopolitical tensions and the evolving economic dynamics have exerted negative impact on the development environment and cooperation structure of the Asia-Pacific. The COVID-19 pandemic keeps resurging. The global economy faces mounting downward pressure and growing risk of recession. Food, energy and debt crises are emerging together. Many countries are encountering considerable difficulties in economic and social development. Various factors of uncertainty and instability are growing. The Cold War mentality, hegemonism, unilateralism and protectionism are mounting. Acts that distort international norms, disrupt economic linkages, inflate conflicts in regions, and impede development cooperation are all too common. All these pose a serious challenge to peace and development in the Asia-Pacific.
A review of the past may offer a clue to what will happen in the future. Over the past decades, Asia-Pacific economic cooperation has injected powerful impetus into the development of our region and greatly improved the wellbeing of our peoples. We should draw on the valuable past practices and remain firm in pursuing our development goals.
— We should follow a path of peaceful development.
The Asia-Pacific, once a ground of big power rivalry and a place fraught with international disputes, suffered so much from conflicts and wars. History tells us that bloc confrontation cannot solve any problem and that bias will only lead to disaster. It is precisely because the Asia-Pacific was freed from the shadow of the Cold War that this region, and particularly its small- and medium-sized economies, have been able to embark on a fast track toward modernization and create the Asia-Pacific miracle.
The Asia-Pacific is no one’s backyard and should not become an arena for big power contest. No attempt to wage a new cold war will ever be allowed by the people or by our times!
— We should follow a path of openness and inclusiveness.
Openness and inclusiveness are vital for human prosperity and advancement. Over the past decades, we economies in the Asia-Pacific have overcome market fragmentation, built closer economic linkages and embraced the world, thus opening up vast space for economic development. APEC, guided by open regionalism and the principles of diversity and non-discrimination, has become an architecture for inclusive and win-win regional cooperation. It is by acting on such a far-sighted vision that we in the Asia-Pacific have been able to seize the opportunities of economic globalization and become a forerunner of the times in pursuing regional economic integration.
Openness brings progress while closing the door can only leave one behind. Any attempt to disrupt or even dismantle the industrial and supply chains formed in the Asia-Pacific over many years will only lead Asia-Pacific economic cooperation to a dead end.
— We should follow a path of solidarity.
The Asia-Pacific miracle has been created by all of us working hand in hand and overcoming difficulties and obstacles. Over the years, we in the Asia-Pacific have stayed together as one big family. We have met challenges head-on in solidarity, defused various risks and navigated the surging tides of the global economy. Through cooperation, we have forged a sense of community, which has laid a solid foundation for steady progress.
The Asia-Pacific has entered a crucial stage of post-COVID recovery. The economies in our region are confronted with disrupted supply chains, strained food and energy supply, growing inflationary pressure and other difficulties. We should strengthen cooperation, support and help each other, and enable the Asia-Pacific to be a leader in boosting global economic recovery.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
Facing these new developments, we need to draw on past experiences and lessons, respond to the challenges of the times and steadfastly advance Asia-Pacific regional economic integration, so as to jointly break new ground in development and build an Asia-Pacific community with a shared future.
First, we should bolster the foundation for peaceful development.
We should abide by the purposes and principles of the UN Charter, pursue the vision of common, comprehensive, cooperative and sustainable security, and jointly reject the Cold War mentality and bloc confrontation. We need to build an Asia-Pacific security architecture to create conditions for ensuring economic development and durable peace and stability in the Asia-Pacific.
Second, we should take a people-centered development approach.
We need to ensure people’s wellbeing through economic development, meet the needs of vulnerable groups, narrow the income gap and foster an inclusive environment for development. The developed economies in the Asia-Pacific should play a positive role and actively support the developing economies. Together, we can forge a new partnership of unity and equality, a partnership that is balanced and inclusive.
Third, we should pursue higher-level opening-up.
We need to deepen cooperation within the APEC framework, advance the building of a Free Trade Area of the Asia-Pacific and implement the Putrajaya Vision. We need to engage fully and deeply in the reform of the World Trade Organization, achieve better alignment among the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership, the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership and the Digital Economy Partnership Agreement, and build an open Asia-Pacific economy.
Fourth, we should strive for higher-standard connectivity.
We should, guided by the APEC Connectivity Blueprint, boost hard and soft connectivity and exchange of personnel in a well-ordered way. China will actively enhance the complementarity between the Belt and Road Initiative and the development strategies of other parties to jointly build a high-quality Asia-Pacific connectivity network.
Fifth, we should build stable and unimpeded industrial and supply chains.
We need to follow the laws governing economic activities and market principles, facilitate the free flow of production factors, protect the production and supply systems of goods and services, and build convenient, efficient and secure industrial and supply chains in the Asia-Pacific. Unilateralism and protectionism should be rejected by all; any attempt to politicize and weaponize economic and trade relations should also be rejected by all.
Sixth, we should promote economic upgrading.
We need to embrace the new round of scientific and technological revolution and industrial transformation, accelerate scientific, technological and institutional innovation, foster new economy, new types of business and new business models, and achieve digital transformation of the Asia-Pacific economy. It is important for us to pursue green and low-carbon development, foster green economic sectors, promote green finance, and speed up the establishment of an Asia-Pacific green cooperation framework. With these efforts, we can make the Asia-Pacific a global pace-setter in pursuing economic development.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
China, as a member of the Asia-Pacific, has benefited much from the region. In return, it has shared its development gains with others in the region. The Chinese economy and the Asia-Pacific economy are interdependent and deeply integrated with each other. In fact, China is now a major trading partner of many Asia-Pacific economies and an important part of the industrial and supply chains in the region. China is committed to promoting the building of an Asia-Pacific community with a shared future, and will do more to enhance the stability and prosperity of the Asia-Pacific.
Not long ago, the Communist Party of China successfully convened its 20th National Congress, during which it laid out the overarching goal for China’s development both at the current stage and in the years to come, and decided on the steps to be taken to this end. In particular, a call was made at the Congress to pursue Chinese modernization on all fronts.
— To date, no more than 30 countries, with a total population of less than one billion, have achieved industrialization. Against this backdrop, the modernization of China, a country with over 1.4 billion people, will be of epoch-making importance in human history. To ensure greater success in China’s economic and social development, it is critical to unleash the strength of its over 1.4 billion people. We will continue to take the people-centered approach and raise living standards. Our goal is to increase the middle-income population to more than 800 million in the next 15 years, and promote the sustained growth of our super-sized market.
— As an ancient Chinese historian observed, “Governance is all about enriching the people.” China has won the critical battle against poverty and finished building a moderately prosperous society in all respects, and it is now continuing its efforts to achieve common prosperity for all. The common prosperity we have in mind aims to better meet people’s needs for a better life. It aims to achieve, over time, overall prosperity and prosperity for all. We will leverage the role of both the market and the government and ensure both performance and fairness. We will make the pie bigger and share it fairly, and build an olive-shaped structure of income distribution. I have put forward the Global Development Initiative (GDI) for the very purpose of addressing imbalance in development. China is working with over 100 countries and international organizations to advance the GDI and see that the deliverables promised at this year’s High-level Dialogue on Global Development will reach those in need. China stands ready to provide more resources for global development cooperation and work with all other parties to build a global community of development.
— I have often said that we should not only have towering buildings across China. More importantly, we should build a huge mansion, one of powerful inspiration, for the Chinese nation. We will keep raising people’s living standards and enriching their lives, so that every family will enjoy a decent life and everyone will be imbued with a strong sense of moral integrity. We believe in equality, mutual learning, dialogue and inclusiveness between different civilizations. We call upon all countries to hold dear humanity’s common values of peace, development, fairness, justice, democracy and freedom. And we should overcome estrangement between civilizations with exchanges, prevent their clash with mutual learning, and overcome a false sense of superiority with coexistence. In short, we should promote human advancement along a balanced, positive and upward trajectory.
— In pursuing Chinese modernization, we will follow a new path of maintaining harmony between humanity and nature. This is our responsibility not only for ourselves, but for the world as well. In recent years, we have, acting on the belief that lucid waters and lush mountains are invaluable assets, pursued all-round green transition in economic and social development; and we have endeavored to build a Beautiful China with blue skies, green lands and clear waters.
China has set the goal of striving to peak CO2 emissions before 2030 and achieve carbon neutrality before 2060. This is our solemn commitment to the international community. Over the past decade, China has been among the countries with the fastest energy intensity reduction in the world. We have overfulfilled the 2020 target of cutting carbon emission intensity by 40 to 45 percent. As a result, a total of 5.8 billion tons less of CO2 is emitted. China now has both the largest carbon market and the largest clean electric power generation system in the world. We will enhance cooperation with all other stakeholders, and advance steadily along the path of green and low-carbon transition in a concerted effort to build a community of life for humanity and nature.
— More than anything else, we Chinese hope to see peace and stability. To follow the path of peaceful development is a strategic choice made by us in the fundamental interests of the Chinese people. We will stand firmly on the right side of history. We will stay committed to peace, development, cooperation, and delivering mutual benefit. We will strive to safeguard world peace and development as we pursue our own development, and we will make greater contribution to world peace and development through our own development.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
Over the years, the Asia-Pacific business community has been an important driver fueling growth in our region. Some say that entrepreneurs are pessimists in the short term, but optimists in the long term. If one cannot foresee risk in time of prosperity, he cannot run a business well. But neither can he grow his business if he fails to see the long-term positive trend. I hope that all of you, as business leaders, will give full rein to entrepreneurship, actively involve yourselves in economic cooperation and China’s reform, opening-up and modernization endeavors, and contribute to boosting development and prosperity of both the Asia-Pacific and the world.
Thank you."
"Remarks by H.E. Xi Jinping
President of the People’s Republic of China
At Session I of the 17th G20 Summit
Bali, 15 November 2022
Your Excellency President Joko Widodo,
Colleagues,
It gives me great pleasure to attend the G20 Bali Summit. At the outset, I wish to thank President Joko Widodo and the Indonesian government for making these thoughtful arrangements for the Summit. I also salute the Indonesian presidency for its important role in promoting G20 cooperation.
We meet at a time of momentous changes unseen in a century, changes that are consequential to the world, to our times, and to history. The COVID-19 pandemic still drags on with cases surging here and there. The world economy is getting more fragile. The geopolitical environment remains tense. Global governance is seriously inadequate. Food and energy crises are compounded with one another. All this poses formidable challenges to our development.
Faced with these challenges, it is imperative that all countries embrace the vision of a community with a shared future for mankind, and advocate peace, development, and win-win cooperation. All countries should replace division with unity, confrontation with cooperation, and exclusion with inclusiveness. All countries should join hands together to answer the question of our times — “what is wrong with this world, what we should do about it” — so as to tide over difficulties and create a better future together.
All G20 members should take the responsibility inherent in being major international and regional players, and should lead by example in promoting development of all nations, improving the well-being for the whole mankind, and advancing progress of the entire world.
— We should make global development more inclusive.
Solidarity is strength, but division leads nowhere. Living in the same global village, we should stand with each other in the face of risks and challenges. Drawing ideological lines or promoting group politics and bloc confrontation will only divide the world, and hinder global development and human progress. With human civilization already in the 21st century, the Cold-War mentality has long been outdated. What we need to do is to join hands together and elevate our win-win cooperation to a new height.
Countries should respect each other, seek common grounds while reserving differences, live together in peace, and promote an open world economy. No one should engage in beggar-thy-neighbor practices, building “a small yard with high fences”, or creating closed and exclusive clubs.
I always believe that the G20 should stay committed to its founding purpose of unity and cooperation, carry forward the spirit of solidarity, and uphold the principle of consensus. “Sugarcane and lemongrass grow in dense clumps.” This Indonesian proverb well captures the value of solidarity. Division and confrontation serve no one’s interest. Only solidarity and common development is the right choice to make.
— We should make global development beneficial to all.
Development is real only when allcountries develop together. Prosperity and stability cannot be possible in a world where the rich become richer while the poor are made poorer. Every nation aspires for a better life, and modernization is not a privilege reserved for any single country. Frontrunners in development should sincerely help others develop, and provide more global public goods. All major countries should perform their due responsibilities, and do their best for the cause of global development.
The Global Development Initiative (GDI) that I proposed is aimed at meeting the long-term objective and immediate needs of common development of the world, fostering international consensus on promoting development, cultivating new drivers for global development, and facilitating common development and progress of all countries.
Within one year, more than 60 countries have joined the Group of Friends of the GDI. China has established the Global Development and South-South Cooperation Fund, and will increase its funding for the China-UN Peace and Development Fund. We will make a list of items for practical cooperation, set up an open-ended pool of GDI projects, and draw up a roadmap for GDI implementation. We are working with 100-plus countries and international organizations on the GDI, thus providing new impetus for the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. China has submitted 15 projects to the “G20 Action for Strong and Inclusive Recovery”, and has participated in five other projects within this framework. We will work with fellow G20 members to deliver on these projects.
— We should make global development more resilient.
Economic globalization is encountering headwinds, and the world economy is at risk of recession. Everyone is having a hard time, but developing countries are bearing the brunt. It is therefore more imperative than ever for us to focus on the issue of development. The theme of the Bali Summit, “Recover Together, Recover Stronger”, sends a positive message of the G20’s commitment to supporting the growth of developing countries and preventing divergent and unbalanced global recovery. We need to build a global partnership for economic recovery, prioritize development and put the people at the center, always keep in mind the difficulties faced by developing countries, and accommodate their concerns. China supports the African Union in joining the G20.
All parties should continue to deepen international cooperation against COVID-19, and raise the accessibility and affordability of vaccines, medicines, and diagnostic and treatment methods in developing countries so as to create a sound environment for economic recovery. We should curb global inflation, and defuse systemic economic and financial risks. In particular, developed economies should mitigate the negative spillovers from their monetary policy adjustment, and keep their debts at sustainable levels. The IMF should speed up the on-lending of SDRs to low-income countries. International financial institutions and commercial creditors, which are the main creditors of developing countries, should take part in the debt reduction and suspension for developing countries. China is implementing the G20’s Debt Service Suspension Initiative (DSSI) in all respects, and has suspended the largest amount of debt service payment among all G20 members. Meanwhile, China is working with some G20 members on the debt treatment under the Common Framework for Debt Treatment beyond the DSSI, thus helping relevant developing countries navigate through the difficult time.
Global trade, digital economy, green transition and fighting corruption are key factors driving global development. We should continue to uphold the WTO-centered multilateral trading system, actively push forward WTO reform, enhance trade and investment liberalization and facilitation, and promote an open world economy. China has proposed the G20 Action Plan on Digital Innovation and Cooperation. We look forward to working with all parties to foster an open, fair, and non-discriminatory environment for digital economy so as to narrow the North-South digital divide. In tackling climate change and transitioning toward green and low-carbon development, the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities must be upheld. It is also important to provide funding, technology and capacity-building support for developing countries and promote cooperation on green finance. International cooperation is very important for fighting corruption. G20 members must maintain zero tolerance for corruption, step up international cooperation on fugitive repatriation and asset recovery, and refuse to provide “safe havens” to corrupt individuals and assets.
Global development would be impossible without a peaceful and stable international environment. With this in mind, I have put forward the Global Security Initiative (GSI). Our goal is to work with all parties to champion the spirit of the UN Charter, act on the principle of indivisible security, uphold the vision of common, comprehensive, cooperative and sustainable security, advocate the resolution of conflicts through negotiation and settlement of disputes through consultation, and support all efforts conducive to the peaceful settlement of crises.
Colleagues,
Food and energy security is the most pressing challenge in global development. The root cause of the ongoing crises is not production or demand, but interrupted supply chains and international cooperation. The way out of this is for all countries to, with the coordination of the UN and other multilateral international organizations, enhance cooperation on market supervision and regulation, build partnerships on commodities, develop an open, stable and sustainable commodities market, and work together to unclog supply chains and stabilize market prices.
We must resolutely oppose the attempt to politicize food and energy issues or use them as tools and weapons. Unilateral sanctions must be removed, and restrictions on relevant scientific and technological cooperation must be lifted. In reducing the consumption of fossil fuel energy and transitioning toward clean energy, we need to give balanced consideration to various factors, and make sure that the transitional process does not hurt the economy or people’s livelihood. Developing countries face more acute risks in food and energy security. The G20 should keep this in mind, and provide necessary support in production, collection, storage, funding and technology. Since the UN has established the Global Crisis Response Group on Food, Energy and Finance, the G20 should voice its support for it.
Over the years, China has made major contribution to global food and energy security. This year, China has proposed, together with six partners including Indonesia and Serbia, the Initiative of International Cooperation on Resilient and Stable Industrial and Supply Chains, joined other countries in calling for the establishment of the Global Clean Energy Cooperation Partnership, and put forward the International Cooperation Initiative on Global Food Security in the G20. We look forward to deepening cooperation with all parties in these areas.
Colleagues,
The Communist Party of China has recently convened its 20th National Congress, laying out the goals, tasks and guiding policies for the cause of the Party and the country in the next five years and beyond. China will stay committed to the path of peaceful development, stay committed to deepening reform and opening-up, and stay committed to promoting national rejuvenation on all fronts through a Chinese path to modernization. A China marching toward modernization will bring more opportunities to the world, inject stronger momentum for international cooperation, and make greater contribution to human progress!
Thank you."
"Phnom Penh, November 13, 2022
Prime Minister Hun Sen,
Colleagues,
It gives me great pleasure to join you in the beautiful city of Phnom Penh. I want to thank Prime Minister Hun Sen and the government of the Kingdom of Cambodia for the thoughtful arrangements made for the meeting.
On the remarkable journey of East Asian cooperation, the city of Phnom Penh has left its own deep mark. Ten years ago, the ASEAN Summit adopted the Phnom Penh Declaration, taking ASEAN Community building onto a fast track. It is also in Phnom Penh that negotiations for the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) were officially launched. The Phnom Penh Declaration on the East Asia Summit Development Initiative pooled consensus among all parties and created a strong momentum for common development in the region. Today, we are again gathered in Phnom Penh for the first face-to-face East Asia Summit (EAS) since COVID-19 struck. This is a meeting of great significance. China hopes to work with all parties to generate new dynamism for regional prosperity and development.
Today, the international and regional landscapes are intricate and complex; the world economic recovery remains sluggish; the international security situation is less than stable; and energy, food and financial risks and challenges keep flaring up. That said, we must see that our region has maintained peace and stability on the whole, regional economic integration continues to move ahead, a stable system of industrial and supply chains has taken shape, the idea of green development has taken deep root, and digital transformation has become a new area of growth. The call for peace and development among people in the region is growing stronger. Countries in the region need to uphold mutual respect, deepen win-win cooperation, and tackle risks and challenges together.
With a membership covering major economies in the Asia-Pacific, the EAS enjoys broad-based representation and influence. The EAS should keep to the right direction amid shifting dynamics in the region and beyond, and stick to its defined role. It should enhance institution building, expand common ground , strengthen its foundation, and boost the driving force of the two wheels of development and security. At the EAS, all parties need to share opportunities, tackle challenges together, deepen regional cooperation, and make positive contributions to longstanding peace, stability and prosperity in the region.
First, we need to maintain strategic dialogue and conduct constructive interactions.
As a leaders-led strategic forum, the EAS has, since its inception, stressed the need to uphold the spirit of the
Treaty of Amity and Cooperation in Southeast Asia
, the principle of non-interference in internal affairs and the ASEAN Way of accommodating each other’s comfort levels. The EAS has served as an important platform for regional countries to have exchange and cooperation on political and security affairs and economic development. In the face of inclinations toward geopolitical tensions and escalating hotspots, the EAS should serve as a platform for dialogue to encourage engagement and consultation among regional countries to increase mutual understanding and trust, and properly manage differences. It should avoid decoupling, and still less move toward confrontation. China has put forward the Global Security Initiative which advocates a vision of common, comprehensive, cooperative and sustainable security, presenting China’s solution to security challenges. China is ready to work with all other parties to create favorable conditions for broadening and deepening practical cooperation and to consolidate the foundation for lasting peace and stability in East Asia.
Second, we need to pursue mutually beneficial cooperation and tackle risks and challenges together.
Global threats and challenges call for global responses and real action is what matters most. East Asia is one of the regions that enjoy the biggest development and cooperation potential. Last year, China, Japan and the ROK and ASEAN contributed over 30 percent to global economic growth, and trade and investment within the region has sustained a momentum of fairly rapid expansion. We need to keep to the right direction of economic globalization, and continue to pursue trade and investment liberalization and facilitation, and open and mutually beneficial cooperation. We need to work for sound implementation of the RCEP, keep the industrial and supply chains secure, stable and smooth, and push forward the regional economic integration process, to spur a sustainable recovery and growth in our region. In response to public health risks such as new infectious diseases, China will continue to support ASEAN in building regional vaccine production and distribution centers, and actively advance regional capacity-building on public health. To tackle energy security challenges, China believes it is imperative to pursue a balanced and orderly low-carbon transition, ensure accessible and secure energy supply to meet production and livelihood needs, and safeguard energy and food security. China welcomes the efforts by all in harnessing the mechanisms of the Clean Energy Forum and the New Energy Forum to enhance policy exchange and practical cooperation, in a joint effort to meet climate and ecological challenges, and advance sustainable development in the region. We look forward to an early renewal of the plan of action of the EAS, with greater input in practical cooperation in such areas as poverty reduction, to deliver on more development goals.
Third, we need to uphold ASEAN centrality and foster an inclusive regional architecture.
Over the years, a multi-tiered and inter-connected architecture of regional cooperation has taken shape in East Asia, which has played an irreplaceable role in safeguarding regional peace, stability and prosperity. The key to its success is that it upholds ASEAN centrality, accommodates the interests of all parties, and conforms to the regional reality. While the architecture may be constantly refined in light of evolving situation, ASEAN centrality as its very foundation must not be undermined. All parties should support ASEAN centrality in East Asian cooperation. Only in this way can East Asian cooperation be strong and sustainable. China supports continued efforts in the ASEAN Way to facilitate a proper settlement of the Myanmar issue to uphold ASEAN unity and cooperation. The international community should foster a favorable external environment to this end.
Colleagues,
A peaceful and stable South China Sea, and freedom of navigation and overflight there serves the interests of all parties. As the world’s biggest trader of goods, China has 60 percent of its cargoes shipped through the South China Sea. The freedom of navigation and overflight in the South China Sea has never been a problem.
Two days ago, leaders of ASEAN countries and I jointly announced the release of the Joint Statement on the 20th Anniversary of the Declaration on the Conduct of Parties in the South China Sea, sending out a strong signal of our firm commitment to fully and effectively implementing the Declaration and jointly safeguarding peace and stability in the South China Sea.
China stands for maintaining peace and stability and unimpeded sea lanes in the South China Sea. In keeping with the spirit of the DOC that has been in place for 20 years and the principles of international law including the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, China is ready to work with ASEAN countries to step up COC consultations on the basis of consensus-building. All sides should respect the efforts of regional countries for peace and stability in the South China Sea, and support regional countries in making the South China Sea a sea of peace, friendship and cooperation.
The achievements China has made in its economic and social development in the past four decades of reform and opening-up are attributable to a peaceful external environment and a stable region which conform to China’s interests. China follows an independent foreign policy of peace and a path of peaceful development. It decides on its position and policies based on the merits of each matter, upholds the basic norms governing international relations, and stands for international fairness and justice. China is committed to the fundamental national policy of opening-up and pursues a win-win strategy of opening-up. It will continue to bring opportunities to other countries in the world with its own development, and promote an open global economy to the betterment of people around the world.
With common will and sincerity, a brighter future can be created. China is ready to strengthen dialogue and cooperation with all parties to together make East Asia, our common home, a better place, and jointly preserve peace and prosperity of the world.
Thank you."
"Phnom Penh, November 12, 2022
Your Excellency Prime Minister Hun Sen,
Colleagues,
I am delighted to meet you face to face at this important time of the 25th anniversary of ASEAN Plus Three (APT) cooperation. I wish to thank Prime Minister Hun Sen and the Cambodian government for all the preparations made for the meeting and express my welcome to President Yoon Suk-yeol and President Ferdinand Marcos Jr. to their first APT Summit.
This is my tenth APT Summit. Over the past decade, China has proposed more than 130 initiatives and programs of cooperation under this framework. Thanks to our joint efforts, all have been basically implemented. In these ten years, I have also witnessed the impressive growth of APT cooperation into a tall, leafy tree, and I wish to thank you for your valuable support for China’s participation in this endeavor.
Just now, we released the
ASEAN Plus Three Cooperation 1997-2022 in Commemoration of the 25th Anniversary of APT Cooperation
, which reviewed the fruitful outcomes of this framework since its inception in 1997. Twenty-five years ago, countries in the region jointly launched the APT aiming at the invigoration and long prosperity of East Asia. Over the past 25 years, thanks to the overall peace and stability in the region, APT cooperation has maintained rapid growth and made continuous progress, which has not only boosted our respective national development, but also contributed to regional financial and food security and the stability and smooth functioning of international industrial and supply chains. We have maintained our solidarity and coordination through the trying times, stood side by side in addressing financial crises, public health emergencies, and other major risks and challenges, and jointly established various cooperation mechanisms such as the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP), the Chiang Mai Initiative Multilateralization (CMIM), and the ASEAN Plus Three Emergency Rice Reserve (APTERR). These developments have provided a constant source of impetus to the stability and development of East Asia.
The global and regional situations are now undergoing profound and complex changes. On the one hand, we have achieved initial success in fighting COVID-19; the East Asian economy has been recovering despite ups and downs; the reopening of the tourism sector and faster growth of the digital economy are creating important impetus. On the other hand, global security situation remains turbulent; unilateralism and protectionism are surging; economic and financial risks are rising; and global development is confronted with unprecedented challenges. As major economies in East Asia, APT countries need to stay committed to promoting peace, stability, development and prosperity in the region and beyond, and to improving the people’s wellbeing .
Colleagues,
East Asia is an important engine driving world economic growth. APT is the main vehicle of East Asian cooperation. We need to take its 25th anniversary as a new starting point, draw experience from history, and strengthen cooperation in a progressive spirit. We need to take the renewal of the APT Cooperation Work Plan as an opportunity to boost the momentum of cooperation and work toward the long-term goal of establishing an East Asian Community.
First, we need to take forward regional economic integration.
Economic integration has been a key driving force behind East Asia’s development and prosperity; it is also what countries in the region need for their development. East Asia is a major engine driving world economic growth, and accounts for nearly 30 percent of the global population, economy and trade. Closer economic cooperation in this region is required to both meet the current downward pressures and pursue development in the long run. The RCEP represents a free trade area that has the largest population, most diverse membership and greatest potential. Its entry into force and implementation is a milestone in East Asian economic integration. We need to make the most of the commitments and rules on market access, to further release its dividends. China has contributed funds to RCEP economic and technical cooperation to assist ASEAN countries in building capacity for implementing the agreement, and is ready to continue such effort. We support the early establishment of an RCEP secretariat to enhance institution building. We hope the parties will support China’s Hong Kong in joining the agreement as one of the earliest new members. We need to work together to build a more open and inclusive platform for economic cooperation, and uphold a diverse and stable international economic landscape and trade relations.
Second, we need to deepen cooperation in the industrial division of labor in East Asia.
As the production networks of East Asia improve, regional economies have become increasingly interdependent. Such industrial cooperation networks that have emerged over the years have long been deeply integrated, complementary and mutually beneficial. The acts of erecting walls or barriers, decoupling or disrupting supply chains are against economic laws and market principles, and are, in the final analysis, neither viable nor sustainable. International trade has never been free of frictions. Yet win-win and all-win results can be realized if these differences are put into perspective and handled fairly and equitably. We need to pursue open and inter-connected development, and upgrade regional industrial and supply chains while keeping them stable and smooth. This serves the common interests of all countries, and represents the right direction of economic globalization. In July this year, China hosted the APT Forum on Industrial Chain and Supply Chain Cooperation, which released joint cooperation initiatives expressing the common wish to keep regional industrial and supply chains stable and smooth and make them more resilient. To realize high-quality development in East Asia, we must make continued efforts for an open and innovative environment, and build a closer and more resilient regional industrial system. China will work through the ASEAN+3 SME Service Alliance to help businesses in the region build capacity for scientific and technological innovation and digital transformation, so that they can better play their role as a leading force in industrial restructuring and upgrading in the region, and create more job opportunities.
Third, we need to build a stronger capacity for crisis response.
In the face of multiple crises in public health, food, energy, and finance, we need to make the most of the APT crisis response mechanisms to maintain overall stability in our region, and at the same time, further enhance and develop the mechanisms to get prepared against greater risks and challenges in the future. On the development of the APT Reserve of Medical Supplies for Public Health Emergencies (RMS), China is prepared to provide assistance of medical supplies to countries in need. China supports the efforts to make the CMIM more readily available and effective, strengthen the role of the ASEAN+3 Macroeconomic Research Office (AMRO), and keep improving the regional financial safety net. China is implementing its commitment of new funding contribution to AMRO to strengthen its capacity for economic surveillance and technical assistance, and support its efforts to build a regional knowledge center and a regional financial think tank network. To better safeguard food security in our region, China will continue to make financial contribution to APTERR in the next five years to provide rice to ASEAN countries and carry out supporting activities.
Fourth, we need to deepen people-to-people and cultural exchanges.
While the COVID-19 pandemic has affected face-to-face communication, it has also galvanized new ways of interaction such as “cloud meeting” and “cloud tourism”, enriching our people-to-people and cultural exchanges. China is ready to take the newly established ASEAN Directors-General of Immigration Departments and Heads of Consular Affairs Divisions of the Ministries of Foreign Affairs Plus Three (DGICM+3) Consultation as an opportunity, to host the Seminar on Immigration Policy of APT Countries and carry out the APT Young Police Professionals Program, in a bid to enhance the exchanges and cooperation between our immigration and law enforcement departments, and provide more policy support to personnel interflow. In keeping with the changing COVID situation, China will refine its containment protocols, gradually increase its international flights, and is ready to actively facilitate the return of ASEAN, Japanese and ROK students to China. At the same time, we need to make good use of such platforms as the Network of APT Cultural Cities to encourage and support various forms of exchanges between East Asian Cultural Cities and the ASEAN Cities of Culture. China looks forward to APT countries’ participation in the events under the Asian tourism promotion plan to strengthen practical cooperation on culture and tourism. China is ready to host the 21st East Asia Forum next year to deepen exchanges among government, industry and academia between APT countries.
Fifth, we need to boost sustainable development.
Embodying the people-centered development philosophy, sustainable development is crucial for the harmonious co-existence between man and nature, and is also a shared aspiration of people in East Asia. To promote the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, China wishes to work with all parties to implement the Global Development Initiative, take the lead in conducting the APT research on transition finance, host the APT Clean Energy Roundtable Dialogue, and engage in green and sustainable development cooperation through the APT Inter-Bank Association, to deepen our low-carbon cooperation partnership. China has achieved a historic success in eliminating absolute poverty. We are ready to share poverty-alleviation experience with other regional countries, continue to advance the projects under the East Asian Cooperation Initiative on Poverty Reduction (phase II), and hold the APT Village Leaders Exchange Program, to help reduce poverty and promote development in the region. Human resources are a major pillar of development. We need to attach high importance to nurturing talent, with a special focus on cooperation on reopening schools and rebuilding a resilient educational system under the current circumstances, to provide intellectual support to sustainable development.
China keeps to its foreign policy goals of upholding world peace and promoting common development. We will stay committed to the path of peaceful development and deepen friendship, mutual trust and convergence of interests with neighboring countries. Opening-up is a fundamental national policy of China. We will adhere to the win-win strategy of opening-up, keep to the right direction of economic globalization, push for trade and investment liberalization and facilitation, advance bilateral, regional and multilateral cooperation, promote international coordination on macro economic policies, advance an open world economy, and work along with other countries to foster a pro-development international environment. I wish to emphasize that the Chinese economy has become an integral part of the world economy. Our development is both domestically driven and oriented toward the world. For years, China has been the world’s biggest trader in goods. Imports contribute 70 percent to China’s industrial added value. Foreign-invested companies play a big role in job creation, business start-ups, market connectivity and flow of talent. There is no reason for China to stop opening-up. The door will only open wider. China will continue to pursue high-level opening-up, expand access to its domestic market, protect the rights and interests of foreign investment, and foster a market-oriented and law-governed business environment up to international standards. Through its high-quality development and high-level opening-up, China will present new and greater development opportunities to the world, and inject new impetus into APT cooperation as well.
Colleagues,
APT cooperation has withstood many changing circumstances. What we have achieved in the cooperation has not come easily, and deserves to be dearly cherished. As a Cambodian proverb goes, trust grows like a tree. Facing both burgeoning opportunities and upcoming new challenges, only trust, solidarity and cooperation can lead us to win-win and all-win results against all odds. China is ready to work with other APT countries to build up consensus, deepen practical cooperation, and work tirelessly for an even better future of East Asian cooperation.
Thank you!"
"Phnom Penh, November 11, 2022
Prime Minister Hun Sen,
Colleagues,
It is my real pleasure to gather with you in the beautiful and vibrant city of Phnom Penh for the 25th China-ASEAN Summit. I wish to thank Prime Minister Hun Sen and the government of the Kingdom of Cambodia for the thoughtful preparations and meticulous arrangements made for the summit.
Since the inception of a dialogue relationship in the early 1990s, China and ASEAN have forged ahead together and been a part of each other’s success stories. With mutually beneficial cooperation advancing on all fronts and yielding fruitful outcomes, our two sides have set a fine example of win-win cooperation and common development in the region. In November last year, we held a special summit to commemorate the 30th anniversary of China-ASEAN dialogue relations and formally inaugurated a comprehensive strategic partnership. At that summit, President Xi Jinping proposed jointly building a peaceful, safe and secure, prosperous, beautiful and amicable home. China-ASEAN relations have since come to a new historical starting point. A new and promising chapter of China-ASEAN friendship and cooperation has been opened.
Our strategic cooperation has continued to reach new heights.
The frequent and close high-level exchanges between China and ASEAN countries have further enriched our comprehensive strategic cooperation, which has strongly boosted the broader East Asian cooperation and led the way in common development in our region. Upholding the Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence and the purposes of the
Treaty of Amity and Cooperation in Southeast Asia
, China and ASEAN have lived in amity, treated each other as equals, resolved differences through consultation and dialogue and enjoyed deeper mutual political trust. Through closer communication and coordination, we have together kept East Asia an “oasis of peace” and made our active contributions to regional security and stability.
Our pursuit of common development has gained stronger momentum.
Trade between China and ASEAN has grown against the odds of COVID-19 in the past three years. We have become each other’s largest trading partners. Two-way trade has been hitting new highs and reached US$798.4 billion in the first ten months of 2022, up by 13.8 percent year-on-year. We have worked together for the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) to be signed and implemented, and hence built the world’s largest free trade area, taking our open and interconnected development to a new level.
Our efforts to enhance connectivity have produced fruitful outcomes.
The opening of the Phnom Penh-Sihanoukville Expressway has taken Cambodia into a “high-speed era”. With the China-Laos railway, the Lao dream of becoming a land-linked country has come true. The Jakarta-Bandung high-speed railway, the first of its kind across ASEAN, will soon begin its trial operation. The construction of the China-Laos-Thailand railway and the Malaysia’s East Coast Rail Link is gaining traction. The China-Malaysia and China-Indonesia “Two Countries, Twin Parks” have grown bigger and stronger. The New International Land-Sea Trade Corridor has efficiently linked up Europe and Asia. High-quality Belt and Road cooperation has made iconic achievements.
Our security cooperation has grown more dynamic.
Cooperation on military affairs and security, including the defense ministers’ meeting, joint naval exercise and exchange programs for military officers and think tanks, has made solid progress. Practical cooperation on combating transnational crimes and on disaster prevention and relief has registered many highlights.
Our people-to-people ties have become ever closer.
Despite COVID-19, the momentum of our interactions both online and in person is strengthening. Orderly progress is underway for ASEAN students to return to China and resume their studies. The China-ASEAN Young Leaders Scholarship has been broadened out. Our two sides are stepping up to refine visa policies and adjusting upward the number of flights to facilitate business travels. Platforms such as the China-ASEAN Expo, the China-ASEAN Education Cooperation Week and the ASEAN-China Center have unleashed new potentials to bring our peoples closer.
The 20th National Congress of the Communist Party of China (CPC) held not long ago has laid out the strategic plans for building China into a modern socialist country in all respects and advancing the rejuvenation of the Chinese nation on all fronts. It was underlined at the Congress that China will keep to its foreign policy goals of upholding world peace and promoting common development. China will remain committed to an independent foreign policy of peace, to peaceful development and to the fundamental national policy of opening-up, and work to grow friendship and cooperation with all countries.
Colleagues,
The regional and international environments are undergoing profound and complex changes with rising uncertainties and destabilizing factors. COVID-induced shocks are lingering, economic recovery is sluggish, the Cold War mentality is resurfacing, and multilateral governance is in disarray. Global development is facing unprecedented challenges. Peace and stability are the prerequisite for development, and a steady growth of the world economy is a pressing task for all countries. China is ready to work with all parties to uphold the UN-centered international system, practice multilateralism, promote the implementation of the Global Security Initiative (GSI) and jointly safeguard world peace and tranquility. China calls for a joint effort to increase macroeconomic policy coordination, keep industrial and supply chains secure and smooth, act on the Global Development Initiative (GDI), and deepen practical cooperation on all fronts. With solidarity and coordination, we could better meet global challenges and realize inclusive and sustainable development.
China and ASEAN are comprehensive strategic partners with a shared future, and have stood together through thick and thin. Picking sides should not have to be our choice. Openness and cooperation are the viable way in meeting our common challenges. China will keep to its policy of neighborhood diplomacy featuring amity, sincerity, mutual benefit and inclusiveness as well as building friendship and partnership with its neighbors. We will continue to take ASEAN as a high priority in our neighborhood diplomacy, and firmly support ASEAN in playing an even bigger role in regional and international affairs. Now, ASEAN is working on the ASEAN Community’s Post-2025 Vision toward a people-centered and more sustainable ASEAN Community, while China is embarking on a new journey to build a modern socialist country in all respects. Modernization and achieving a better life for our people is a goal we are both working hard to attain. The new circumstances call upon us to continuously enhance friendship, deepen mutual trust and expand common interests. We need to stay focused on development and cooperation, embrace opportunities, meet challenges and pursue modernization with a sense of togetherness, advance regional economic integration and build a closer China-ASEAN community with a shared future. To this end, I wish to make the following proposals:
First, we need to forge a stronger consensus on development cooperation.
Confronted with global difficulties and challenges, no country can be immune from their impacts. We need to put development first, better synergize our development strategies and take collective actions. We need to earnestly deliver the just released China-ASEAN Joint Statement on Strengthening Common and Sustainable Development. As we implement the Annex to the China-ASEAN Plan of Action 2021-2025: Advancing China-ASEAN Comprehensive Strategic Partnership, we may seize this opportunity to improve the quality and efficiency of our practical cooperation. In pursuing high-quality Belt and Road cooperation, we may promote the mutually beneficial cooperation between the Belt and Road Initiative and the ASEAN Outlook on the Indo-Pacific. China appreciates that all ASEAN countries have joined the Group of Friends of the Global Development Initiative, and will set up a special loan on China-ASEAN common development. China welcomes that our two sides have agreed on the signing of the Agreement on China-ASEAN Technical Cooperation, and will step up input in Lancang-Mekong Cooperation and China-BIMP-EAGA cooperation, to help ASEAN narrow development gaps. China has circulated the Implementation List of China-ASEAN Joint Statement on Cooperation in Support of the ASEAN Comprehensive Recovery Framework. We may build on the cooperation outcomes achieved to intensify our cooperation on post-pandemic recovery.
Second, we need to bolster the drivers for development.
China-ASEAN cooperation enjoys high complementarity and strong vitality. We need to further tap the potentials of cooperation, improve regional cooperation platforms and upgrade cooperation mechanisms to cultivate development strengths. Our cooperation may center around five lines of efforts, namely trade and investment liberalization and facilitation, new-type industrialization, digitization, low-carbon development and agricultural modernization. This way, we could raise our collective competitiveness and take our cooperation to new heights.
— We need to promote trade and investment liberalization and facilitation.
We have jointly announced the official launch of negotiations on a new round of upgrade of our Free Trade Area. We need to use this opportunity to raise the quality and level of trade and investment cooperation, better link up our industrial, supply and value chains, and enable more ASEAN companies to share in China’s opportunities. ASEAN countries are most welcome to play a part in building the New International Land-Sea Trade Corridor, to make regional connectivity more efficient and resilient. China proposes that we further develop the Smart Customs, Smart Borders and Smart Connectivity to make trade more secure and convenient. China welcomes the signing of the Memorandum of Understanding on Strengthening Sanitary and Phytosanitary Cooperation between China and ASEAN. We need to enhance coordination, keep as many ports of entry open as possible and raise the efficiency of customs clearance.
— We need to advance new-type industrialization.
The fourth industrial revolution has brought valuable opportunities to all countries, opportunities that must be leveraged to upgrade our industries. China is ready to work with ASEAN to accelerate the development of demonstration zones for high-quality Belt and Road cooperation on industrial capacity, and enhance the performance of joint demonstration zones for innovative development. The Chinese side has officially set up the China-ASEAN Investment Cooperation Fund II to support major infrastructure and energy projects in ASEAN. Next year, China will host a China-ASEAN Cooperation Forum on Emerging Industries to boost cooperation in information and communications, energy conservation, environmental protection, new energy and other fields. China will follow through on the Special Action on Technology Transfer for Sustainable Development, and explore the possibility of establishing regional technology transfer cooperation platforms in ASEAN countries.
— We need to speed up digital transformation.
In developing the China-ASEAN Digital Economy Partnership, China wishes to work with ASEAN to intensify e-commerce cooperation, promote new forms and models of business such as cross-border e-commerce and smart logistics, and deepen cooperation on digital connectivity and digital transformation. China will launch the China-ASEAN Digital Talents Training Project to train 1,000 professionals for ASEAN countries in the next three years, and support leading Chinese provinces in the digital economy, such as Zhejiang, to harness their strengths and enhance exchanges and cooperation with ASEAN.
— We need to pursue low-carbon economic and social development.
China is prepared to provide funding support under the Global Development and South-South Cooperation Fund to launch with ASEAN demonstration programs for implementing the Global Development Initiative. China suggests that we cooperate under the framework of the UN Decade of Ocean Science for Sustainable Development to enhance China-ASEAN partnership on blue economy. China welcomes the preliminary consensus reached on establishing a China-ASEAN clean energy cooperation center and looks forward to its early completion. China will host the China-ASEAN Energy Transition Roundtable and carry out training programs on clean energy capacity building. China has circulated the Fact Sheet on the China-ASEAN Year of Sustainable Development Cooperation, and looks forward to stronger cooperation to accelerate the implementation of the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
— We need to accelerate agricultural modernization.
Ensuring food security is our top priority. We need to work together to implement the China-ASEAN Joint Statement on Food Security Cooperation, to better protect food security in the region and see that we can well meet the food needs of our two billion people. We have agreed to designate the year 2023 as the China-ASEAN Year of Agricultural Development and Food Security Cooperation, and efforts should be focused on deepening cooperation on green agriculture, poverty reduction and rural revitalization, and digital and smart agriculture.
Third, we need to consolidate the underlying support for development.
People’s health provides an important basis for development. China will effectively implement the cooperation programs in support of ASEAN’s response to COVID-19. We look forward to an early renewal of the China-ASEAN MOU on health cooperation, and will accelerate the establishment of the China-ASEAN Public Health Research and Development Collaborating Center to build a stronger shield for regional public health security.
Human resources are the most important asset for development. China will implement the China-ASEAN Human Resource Quality Improvement Program to support human resources development in ASEAN. China has released the List of Activities in Support of the Year of ASEAN Youth, and stands ready to enhance youth exchanges as we deliver the programs of the Big Banyan Tree — China-ASEAN Youth Language Connectivity Program and the “Bridge of the Future” China-ASEAN Young Leaders Training Campus.
People-to-people and cultural exchanges provide an inexhaustible driving force for common development. While ensuring COVID-related safety, China is ready to provide the greatest possible facilitation to ASEAN students to return to China for their studies, and all those who wish to return are welcome to do so. China supports the Statement on the Post-COVID-19 Recovery Plan for ASEAN Tourism, and is ready to expedite discussions toward the establishment of a China-ASEAN Tourism Ministers’ Meeting mechanism. In the next five years, China will each year provide ASEAN law enforcement personnel with 1,000 short-term training opportunities and 20 slots for degree courses in China.
China will again contribute to the China-ASEAN Cooperation Fund to scale up support for practical cooperation programs in various fields. China is ready to expand cross-border RMB settlement with ASEAN countries and make full use of mechanisms such as the China-ASEAN Inter-Bank Association to jointly uphold regional financial stability.
Fourth, we need to enhance coordination on multilateral governance of development.
Global governance has ushered in the “Asian moment”. China fully supports Cambodia, Indonesia, and Thailand in hosting the East Asia Leaders’ Meetings, the G20 Summit, and the APEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting, and looks forward to positive outcomes. China supports ASEAN’s community-building, ASEAN centrality in East Asian cooperation, and the expanding and strengthening of the ASEAN-led regional architecture that is open and inclusive. China will work with ASEAN to champion open regionalism and jointly uphold the common interests of developing countries.
Colleagues,
This year marks the 20th anniversary of the signing of the
Declaration on the Conduct of Parties in the South China Sea
(DOC). As the first political document signed by China and ASEAN countries on the South China Sea, the DOC encapsulates our good-neighborliness and win-win cooperation. Over the past two decades, by committing to the full and effective implementation of the DOC, we have gradually identified an effective pathway for enhancing trust and managing differences, gained good experience of dialogue, cooperation, and joint governance, and maintained overall peace and stability in the South China Sea.
China welcomes the release of the Joint Statement on the 20th Anniversary of the DOC at this meeting and highly commends the positive progress made in the COC consultations. This demonstrates our common will and resolve to uphold peace and stability in the South China Sea. We have full confidence, wisdom and capacity to take the key to the South China Sea issue firmly in our own hands. Relevant parties need to further improve the mechanisms for maritime dialogue, and advance practical cooperation in scientific research, environmental protection, search and rescue, fisheries and countering cross-border crimes. The parties need to jointly uphold the freedom of navigation and overflight in the South China Sea, better protect and harness the marine resources and explore the possibility of joint development to benefit the people of all countries. China stands ready to work with ASEAN countries to properly handle the South China Sea issue in keeping with the international law, including the UNCLOS and on the basis of mutual respect. Together, we could serve as the defender of peace, builder of friendship and champion of cooperation in the South China Sea.
Colleagues,
This is my last time to attend the China-ASEAN Summit. I wish to thank you, my ASEAN colleagues, for all the support and cooperation I have received over the decade. On this platform, China has proposed more than 160 important cooperation initiatives in the last ten years, and more than 99.5 percent of them have been implemented thanks to our combined efforts. It has been my great pleasure to have taken part in and witnessed the important process in the growth of China-ASEAN relations. I shall cherish all the valuable, fond memories. China-ASEAN relationship benefits both sides. We are good neighbors who will always be there for each other. We are good friends that can be counted on, and good partners that no one can set apart. We have every confidence in the future of this relationship. I am sure our friendship and cooperation will enjoy broader prospects, and the region that we all call home will see an even brighter future.
Thank you."
"Li Keqiang
Premier of the State Council of
The People’s Republic of China
At the invitation of Prime Minister Samdech Techo Hun Sen, I will soon pay an official visit to Cambodia, a beautiful country with an ancient civilization, and attend the leaders’ meetings on East Asian cooperation. This will be my first visit abroad in nearly three years since the outbreak of COVID-19, and my first face-to-face meeting with other East Asian leaders in two years.
Recent years have witnessed continued growth of relations between our two countries. In 2016, Chinese President Xi Jinping made a successful visit to Cambodia. In 2020, President Xi awarded Cambodian Queen Mother Norodom Monineath Sihanouk the Friendship Medal of the People’s Republic of China. Both events marked new chapters in China-Cambodia friendship.
As I write this, my memories from two years ago come flooding back. I recall the generous support King (Nododom) Sihamoni and Queen Mother Monineath kindly offered to China during our toughest days of the battle against COVID; I recall Prime Minister Hun Sen’s call on us amid heavy snow and the epidemic onslaught; and I recall how 86 Cambodian children, who had received medical treatment in China for congenital heart disease, and their families made every effort possible to pool together some 5,000 masks and donated them to China. These stories well illustrate our strong friendship and solidarity to overcome difficulties together. They still warm the hearts of hundreds of millions of people in China.
It is with warmth in heart that I am embarking on my visit. Such warmth also comes from my unforgettable experience of working together with Cambodian and other leaders in the region to promote regional cooperation and make the life of our people better.
Our sincere cooperation has produced tangible results. Such achievements are recorded in the history of our joint pursuit of common development, and will be forever etched in our memory.
Such achievements are taking forward the historic process of China and ASEAN countries working together for a shared future.
Given the profound and complex changes in our region and the world and a significant rise in factors of instability, uncertainty and insecurity, it is imperative that we the countries in the region build on our historical experience and seize the current opportunities, and open up new prospects for the future if we are to maintain stability and keep the momentum of development going.
Despite the fluid international landscape over the past years, East Asian cooperation has maintained an upward trend in general.
This is the tenth consecutive time that I attend the leaders’ meetings on East Asian cooperation.
Over the past ten years, China and other countries in the region have made the best of our geopolitical proximity, economic complementarity, cultural affinity and our potentials to promote results-oriented cooperation.
A number of major projects such as the China-Laos railway and Jakarta-Bandung high-speed railway have been delivered, providing strong underpinning for the economic growth and livelihood improvement in the region.
We have continued to push for trade and investment liberalization and facilitation. China-ASEAN trade has withstood external headwinds, and our trade volume has grown from US$400 billion to US$800 billion.
The Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) has entered into force. This multilateral free trade agreement is the world’s largest in terms of both economic aggregate and population served. It has injected strong impetus to regional economic integration, economic globalization and free trade.
Despite difficulties and challenges, we the countries in the region have properly addressed issues at sea and managed our differences. We have pressed ahead with consultations on a code of conduct in the South China Sea, carried out results-oriented maritime cooperation, and worked to make the South China Sea a sea of peace, friendship and cooperation.
Faced with the persistent COVID pandemic, we the countries in the region have come together in solidarity and supported each other, adding new dimensions to our friendship.
The millennium-old friendship between China and Cambodia has withstood the test of time. This great friendship has transcended time and has remained as strong as ever. This is attributed to the efforts and commitment of generations of leaders from both sides.
We have firmly supported and spoken up for each other on issues of core interests and major concerns. The proven mutual trust and friendship have been deeply embedded in the hearts of our peoples. The deeper the roots of friendship, the lusher the foliage and the bigger the fruits of cooperation. We are heartened to see the significant progress and achievements of our bilateral cooperation in agricultural produce, industrial parks, industrial capacity and infrastructure.
In the past few years, as the China-Cambodia Free Trade Agreement was signed and entered into force, our bilateral trade has exceeded US$10 billion, two years earlier than expected.
High-quality rice, Basa fish, bananas, mangoes, and the longan from Cambodia are readily available on Chinese market and on the menu of Chinese households.
Over 170 companies from around the world have settled in the Sihanoukville Special Economic Zone, which was jointly developed by our two countries, creating nearly 30,000 job opportunities for local people.
Construction of the new international airport in Siem Reap is well underway. The expressway from Phnom Penh to Sihanoukville, the first of its kind in Cambodia, has been completed. I am convinced that Cambodia will be well on track to achieve rapid overall development.
Today’s world, albeit rife with challenges, is brimming with hope. In a great era like ours, China-Cambodia friendship and the broad vision, foresight and wisdom featured in East Asian cooperation, such as mutual respect, equality, mutual learning, cooperation, mutual benefit, openness and inclusiveness, all represent a powerful force to lead the way forward, heal the differences, and inspire the pursuit of the greater good for the region and beyond. We need to build on and carry forward this valuable spirit, and take up the responsibilities of our times that are entrusted to us by the people.
Faced with the volatile international landscape and the treacherous global economic situation, we need to stay committed to multilateralism and economic globalization, which represents the way forward.
We need to strengthen complementarity between our development strategies, earnestly implement the RCEP, drive our cooperation on the two wheels of regional trade and free trade, and work together to build an open regional economy.
We need to seize the opportunities created by the new revolution in science, technology and industry, foster new drivers for cooperation in such areas as 5G, artificial intelligence and smart cities.
We need to accelerate the transition toward a digital economy and a digital society. More importantly, we need to carry out extensive international cooperation on technology and innovation, and rise above high walls to share technological breakthroughs so that the entire humanity could reap benefits.
We need to rise to the challenges of climate change and the crisis of energy security. China will work with ASEAN to make the clean energy cooperation center a success, and promote green, low-carbon and sustainable development in the region.
We need to address the impacts of the pandemic on people’s livelihood. To this end, China is willing to contribute to the improvement of people’s livelihood in the region. And we will do so, among others, through demonstration projects such as the China-Laos Railway and the East Asia Cooperation Initiative on Poverty Reduction.
China will do its part to help ensure a stable supply in food and energy. China will also do what it can to help international students from ASEAN countries to return to Chinese schools as early as possible. We will continue to deepen people-to-people exchanges by promoting cultural and tourism cooperation.
China always firmly supports ASEAN unity and centrality. Our respective circles of friends may well engage in constructive interactions and develop in parallel. Our ASEAN friends can rest assured that there will be no pressure from China for you to take sides, only encouragement for common progress in solidarity.
As readers may be aware, the Communist Party of China (CPC) convened its 20th National Congress last month. The Congress drew the strategic roadmap for building China into a modern socialist country in all respects and for advancing China’s national rejuvenation on all fronts. As the largest developing country in the world, China will remain focused on running our own affairs well to deliver a better life for the Chinese people.
The Chinese economy has gone through an unusual journey this year. Confronted with complex and intricate factors at home and abroad, the economy once came under downward pressure beyond expectation. We responded swiftly and resolutely, and introduced a policy package for stabilizing the economy and follow-up measures.
Our macro policies were both robust and effective, well-calibrated and appropriate, without compromising the prospects of future growth. We focused our efforts on helping market entities stay afloat and keeping employment and prices stable. This enabled us to keep the major economic indicators within an appropriate range.
Going forward, we will take strong measures to ensure steady, sound and sustainable growth of China’s economy. Openness brings progress, promotes growth, and inspires innovation. China will stay committed to its fundamental state policy of opening up, and will open still wider to the world. We will intensify reforms to streamline government administration, delegate power, improve regulation, and upgrade services.
China will continue to foster an enabling business environment that is based on market principles, governed by law, and up to international standards. China will reach new heights in opening up, remain a popular destination for investment, and share development opportunities with the world.
As a Cambodian proverb goes, “Where there is road, there is hope.” The road ahead may not be smooth. That said, “No mountain is higher than a climber, and no road is longer than a marcher”, as a Chinese contemporary poet wrote. China will stand together through times of adversity with Cambodia and other countries in the region, and work together to build a stronger China-Cambodia friendship and a closer East Asian cooperation."
"Address by H.E. Xi Jinping
President of the People’s Republic of China
At the Opening Ceremony of the 14th Meeting of the Conference of the Contracting Parties to the Ramsar Convention on Wetlands
5 November 2022
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
On behalf of the government and people of China and also in my own name, I wish to extend hearty congratulations on the opening of this meeting.
Since ancient times, human beings have always preferred to live close to water bodies, and civilizations have taken shape near water bodies. There has been a close link between wetlands and how humans live and work. This meeting, themed “Wetlands Action for People and Nature”, will explore ways to further preserve and develop wetlands. It is a meeting of great significance. It gives us an opportunity to raise awareness, strengthen cooperation, and scale up wetlands action across the world.
— It is important that we build global consensus on prizing wetlands, show our respect for nature, minimize disruption and damage caused by human activities, and protect the ecological security of wetlands, in order to leave the beautiful wetlands to our future generations.
— It is important that we advance the global process on wetlands conservation, redouble efforts to preserve authenticity and integrity, include more important wetlands in nature reserves, improve cooperation mechanisms and platforms, and increase the coverage of wetlands of international importance.
— It is important that we enhance people’s well-being globally by leveraging the role of wetlands in promoting sustainable development, tackling climate change, protecting biodiversity, and delivering more benefits to people around the world.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
Historic achievements have been made in wetlands conservation in China. We have increased the area of wetlands to 56.35 million hectares, put in place a protection system, and enacted a Wetlands Conservation Law. Wetlands have become an integral part of many Chinese cities like Wuhan, making the cities notably more livable. China will pursue a modernization of harmony between humanity and nature, and promote high-quality development in the wetlands conservation cause.
China has recently drawn up a layout plan of national parks. Under the plan, China will designate a number of national parks, accounting for about 10 percent of the country’s land area. About 11 million hectares of wetlands will be incorporated in the national park system, with a focus on developing wetland national parks including the Three-River-Source National Park, the Qinghai Lake National Park, the Ruoergai National Park, the Yellow River Estuary National Park, the Liao River Estuary National Park and the Songnen Plain Crane Homeland National Park. A national wetlands conservation plan and major conservation projects will be implemented. China will promote international exchanges and cooperation to protect the four bird migration routes passing China and to build an international mangrove center in Shenzhen. China supports the convening of a conference of the World Coastal Forum.
As a Chinese saying goes, “The journey ahead may be long and arduous, but with sustained actions, we will eventually reach our destination and embrace a brighter future.” Let us join hands to write a new chapter in global wetlands conservation.
Thank you."
"Remarks by H.E. Xi Jinping
President of the People’s Republic of China
At the Opening Ceremony of the Fifth China International Import Expo
4 November 2022
Your Excellencies Heads of State and Government,
Your Excellencies Heads of International Organizations,
Your Excellencies Heads of Delegations,
Distinguished Guests,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
Good evening! I would like to extend, on behalf of the Chinese government and people and also in my own name, a warm welcome and hearty greetings to all our guests attending the fifth China International Import Expo (CIIE).
Five years ago, I announced the decision to hold the CIIE for the very purpose of expanding China’s opening-up and turning our enormous market into enormous opportunities for the world. Today, the CIIE has become a showcase of China’s new development paradigm, a platform for high-standard opening-up, and a public good for the whole world.
Openness is a key driving force behind the progress of human civilizations and an intrinsic path toward global prosperity and development. The world today is confronted with accelerated changes unseen in a century as well as a sluggish economic recovery. We should commit ourselves to openness to meet development challenges, foster synergy for cooperation, build the momentum of innovation, and deliver benefits to all. We should steadily advance economic globalization, enhance every country’s dynamism of growth, and provide all nations with greater and fairer access to the fruits of development.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
As the 20th National Congress of the Communist Party of China has underscored, China remains committed to the fundamental national policy of opening up to the outside world, pursues a mutually beneficial strategy of opening-up, and adheres to the right course of economic globalization. We will amplify the interplay between domestic and international markets and resources,strive to create new opportunities for the world with our own development, and contribute our share to building an open global economy.
—China will work with all countries and all parties to share the opportunities in its vast market.
We will step up efforts to cultivate a robust domestic market, upgrade trade in goods, develop new mechanisms for trade in services, and import more quality products. We will establish pilot zones for Silk Road e-commerce cooperation and build national demonstration zones for innovative development of trade in services, so as to encourage innovation in trade and promote high-quality Belt and Road cooperation.
—China will work with all countries and all parties to share the opportunities from its institutional opening-up.
We will steadily expand institutional opening-up with regard to rules, regulations, management and standards, put into full effect the new
Catalogue of Encouraged Industries for Foreign Investment
, and further develop the national integrated demonstration zone for greater openness in the service sector. We will implement the strategy to upgrade pilot free trade areas, accelerate the Hainan Free Trade Port development, and tap into their role as pilot platforms for comprehensive reform and opening-up.
—China will work with all countries and all parties to share the opportunities from deepened international cooperation.
We will engage fully and deeply in WTO reform negotiations, promote trade and investment liberalization and facilitation, and enhance international macro-economic policy coordination, with a view to jointly fostering new drivers for global growth. We will endeavor actively to join the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP) and the Digital Economy Partnership Agreement (DEPA) to expand the globally-oriented network of high-standard free trade areas. We will firmly support other developing countries and assist them in growing faster, and promote the building of a community with a shared future for mankind.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
“After endless mountains and rivers that leave doubt whether there is a path out, suddenly one encounters the shade of a willow, bright flowers and a lovely village.” As this ancient Chinese poem indicates, the path is unfolding before us, and a brighter future beckons beyond. China is ready to work with all countries to practice true multilateralism, build more consensus for openness, jointly overcome the difficulties and challenges confronting global economic growth, and make sure that our commitment to openness will bring about broad prospects for global development.
Thank you!"
"Beijing, 1 November 2022
Dear Colleagues,
I am delighted to attend with you the 21st meeting of the Council of Heads of Government of Member States of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO). I wish to thank you for your strong support and active cooperation extended to China in hosting the meeting.
Over the past 21 years since its inception, the SCO has made important contributions to peace and stability in the region and to the development and prosperity of our countries. It has grown into an important platform for regional cooperation on the Eurasian continent. At the meeting of the Council of Heads of State held in Samarkand last September, the parties reached new common understandings on the development of the SCO. President Xi Jinping called for joint efforts to build our region into a peaceful, stable, prosperous and beautiful home. The SCO has long been a priority on China's diplomatic agenda. China will continue to deepen political trust, win-win cooperation and friendly exchanges with members of the SCO family, to jointly deliver greater benefits to the people of our countries.
Colleagues,
The regional and global landscapes are undergoing profound and complex changes. Global growth is languid. Destabilizing factors and uncertainties are interwoven. Nonetheless, upholding peace and pursuing development remain the trend of our times and the people's aspirations. China is ready to work with all parties to champion the Shanghai Spirit and boost the development and invigoration of all our countries. With this in mind, I wish to make the following proposals:
First, we need to safeguard security and stability to foster a sound environment for development. Security and stability form the basis for development and prosperity. Faced with a shifting regional security situation, China wishes to deepen law enforcement and security cooperation with all parties. Our cooperation mechanisms between the competent authorities must live up to their role in tackling unconventional security threats, including drug trafficking and cross-border organized crimes, to provide safeguards for our economic and social development.
Second, we need to expand trade and investment to bolster regional economic recovery. The SCO members are all participants, builders and beneficiaries of economic globalization. We need to jointly uphold the WTO-centered multilateral trading regime and support the development of an open world economy. We need to further tap our potential for economic cooperation and trade, harmonize our rules of trade and explore institutional arrangements, to enhance trade and investment facilitation. The business environment is the soil for companies to emerge and grow. We need to take strong and effective steps to improve policies, clear obstacles and build platforms to provide our businesses with a sound environment for cross-border investment.
China proposes that we advance the implementation of the Framework for Cooperation in Trade in Services between our competent authorities, update the content of cooperation and scale up trade in services. China will work with all parties on the formulation of a plan of action for promoting e-commerce among the member states. All parties are welcome to participate in the upcoming fifth China International Import Expo and the China-SCO online shopping festival. With continuous efforts to advance mutually beneficial cooperation on e-commerce in our region, we could all share in the fruits of a growing digital economy.
Third, we need to enhance connectivity to realize integrated development of the region. Broader and easier connectivity among regional countries is crucial for generating more win-win outcomes. We need to further align the Belt and Road Initiative with our national development strategies and regional cooperation initiatives, and enhance policy communication and coordination. We need to build up infrastructure hardware in transportation and communications and enhance “soft connectivity” of information and data in an integrated manner, to speed up regional economic integration. China suggests that we all pitch in to develop the Smart Customs, Smart Borders and Smart Connectivity, engage in customs clearance facilitation programs for rail transportation, promote mutual recognition of Authorized Economic Operators (AEOs), and build more “single window” platforms for international trade, to raise the efficiency of clearance at ports of entry.
China suggests that we continue to expand the scale of local currency settlement and craft new models of investment and financing, to better support our major projects and industrial cooperation. China looks forward to your active support and participation in the SCO industrial and supply chains forum that China will host next year, as a joint effort to preserve the resilience and stability of regional industrial and supply chains and promote smooth economic circulations in the region.
Fourth, we need to promote sustainable development to build up resilience against risks. As we speak, looming food and energy security risks are posing challenges to sustainable development in the region. We need to fully implement the two statements on food and energy security adopted at the SCO summit earlier this year, to enhance the capacity of regional countries for food and energy supply. We need to harness existing platforms, including relevant SCO ministerial meetings and the SCO Demonstration Base for Agricultural Technology Exchange and Training, to deepen cooperation in modern agriculture. Through joint implementation of the SCO program of cooperation on renewable energy, we need to pursue a balanced and orderly transition to green and low-carbon development, and see that the transition contributes to economic development and people's wellbeing while ensuring stable and secure energy supply.
Fifth, we need to enhance people-to-people and cultural exchanges to strengthen the bond between the people. People-to-people and cultural exchanges under the SCO framework hold great promise, as evidenced by the success of the signature programs including the Women's Forum, the Forum on People-to-people Friendship, and the Youth Campus. We need to fully leverage the cooperation mechanisms on education, culture, science, technology and press, and carry out more cooperation programs that are popular among the people, to deepen our mutual understanding and friendship.
China is ready to host an SCO forum on sister cities next year, continue with programs on youth development cooperation, and carry out activities such as SCO TV festival and exhibitions of radio and television technologies. We will partner with all sides to ensure the success of activities under the SCO Year of Tourism next year, and create new highlights for people-to-people and cultural cooperation.
Colleagues,
The Chinese economy has gone through an unusual journey this year. Confronted with complex and intricate factors at home and abroad, the economy once came under downward pressures beyond expectation, with a notable decline early in the second quarter. We responded swiftly and resolutely, and introduced a policy package for stabilizing the economy and follow-up measures. Our macro policies were both robust and effective, well-calibrated and appropriate, without compromising the prospects of future growth. We focused our efforts on helping market entities stay afloat and keeping employment and prices stable. This helped us to keep the major economic indicators within an appropriate range. We stepped up policy support to businesses to provide them with greater relief in the tough times. The total volume of tax and fee cuts, deferrals and tax refund in the first three quarters rose by over 3.4 trillion yuan, and is expected to reach four trillion yuan for the whole year. This is mainly enabled by the funds saved in the past two years. The policy intensity has exceeded that of 2020, and burdens on market entities have been effectively lessened. To address flagging effective demand, we employed multiple tools in fiscal, financial and other policy arenas to expand effective investment and revive consumption as the main driver of the economy. Meanwhile, we continued to rely on reform to break development bottlenecks, took innovative measures to enhance the effectiveness of macro policy implementation, and worked consistently to foster a market-oriented and law-based business environment up to international standards, to better unlock market vitality and social creativity. Through these efforts, the Chinese economy reversed the downward trend in time. It registered a positive growth in the second quarter and expanded by 3.9 percent in the third quarter, showing a stabilizing and upward momentum. Employment and prices were generally stable. In the first three quarters of this year, 10 million new urban jobs were created, and the consumer price index rose by 2.8 percent year-on-year in September. Going forward, we will take strong measures to promote the steady, sound and sustainable growth of the economy. China has over 160 million market entities, and a hardworking and intelligent people. This is the greatest source of resilience and confidence for our economic development. We will continue to work for the full delivery of all the policy measures introduced for stabilizing the economy, work to maximize their effects, keep major economic indicators within the appropriate range, and strive for better results.
Not long ago, the Communist Party of China (CPC) convened its 20th National Congress, during which strategic plans were laid out for building a modern socialist country in all respects and advancing China's rejuvenation on all fronts. We will fully and faithfully apply the new development philosophy in its entirety, accelerate the creation of a new development paradigm, and focus on high-quality development, to improve the people's wellbeing and raise their quality of life. We will stay committed to the fundamental national policy of reform and opening-up and the win-win strategy of opening-up. China's door will open still wider. We will continue on the path of peaceful development, take an active part in the reform and development of the global governance system, and work with all parties to advance world peace, stability, development and prosperity.
Colleagues,
As a Chinese saying goes, the flame runs high when everyone adds wood to the fire. China is ready to join hands with all parties to forge ahead with a unity of purpose, enterprise and fortitude, to jointly usher in an even brighter future.
Thank you."
"Statement by H.E. Xi Jinping
President of the People’s Republic of China
At the 22nd Meeting of the Council of Heads of State of
The Shanghai Cooperation Organization
Samarkand, 16 September 2022
Your Excellency President Shavkat Mirziyoyev,
Colleagues,
I am delighted to attend the meeting of the Council of Heads of State of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO). I would like to thank you, President Mirziyoyev, for your warm hospitality and thoughtful arrangements. I salute Uzbekistan for the great job it has done to promote SCO cooperation in various fields during its presidency over the past year.
Samarkand, renowned as the pearl on the Silk Road, witnessed the glory of the ancient Silk Road, a route that greatly boosted the flow of goods, spread of science and technology, interaction of ideas, and integration of diverse cultures on the Eurasian continent. Indeed, the ancient Silk Road has remained a historical source of inspiration for us SCO member states as we pursue peace and development.
This year marks the 20th anniversary of the SCO Charter and 15th anniversary of the Treaty on Long-Term Good-Neighborliness, Friendship and Cooperation Between the SCO Member States. Over the years, guided by these two founding documents, we have succeeded in exploring a new path for the development of international organizations, and there is much we can draw on from SCO’s rich practices.
— Political trust.
Guided by the vision of forging enduring friendship and peace among the SCO member states, we respect each other’s core interests and choice of development path and support each other in achieving peace, stability, development and rejuvenation.
— Win-win cooperation.
We accommodate each other’s interests, stay true to the principle of consultation and cooperation for shared benefits, enhance synergy between our respective development strategies, and keep to the path of win-win cooperation toward common prosperity.
— Equality between nations.
We are committed to the principle of equality among all countries regardless of their size, consensus-based decision-making, and addressing issues through friendly consultations. We reject the practice of the strong bullying the weak or the big bullying the small.
— Openness and inclusiveness.
We stand for harmonious coexistence and mutual learning between different countries, nations and cultures, dialogue between civilizations and seeking common ground while shelving differences. We are ready to establish partnership and develop win-win cooperation with other countries and international organizations that share our vision.
— Equity and justice.
We are committed to the purposes and principles of the UN Charter; we tackle major international and regional issues on the basis of their merits, and oppose the pursuit of one’s own agenda at the expense of other countries’ legitimate rights and interests.
These five points fully embody the Shanghai Spirit, namely, mutual trust, mutual benefit, equality, consultation, respect for diversity of civilizations and pursuit of common development. It has been shown that this spirit is the source of strength for the development of the SCO. It is also the fundamental guide we must continue to follow in the years to come. We owe SCO’s remarkable success to the Shanghai Spirit. And we will continue to follow its guidance as we forge ahead.
Colleagues,
Human society, like the natural world, has both sunny and rainy days in its development. Our world today is undergoing accelerating changes unseen in a century, and it has entered a new phase of uncertainty and transformation. The once-in-a-century pandemic has continued unabated. Regional conflicts keep flaring up. The Cold War mentality and group politics are resurfacing, so are unilateralism and protectionism. Economic globalization has encountered headwinds. Deficit in peace, development, trust, and governance has grown. Human society has reached a crossroads and faces unprecedented challenges.
Under these new conditions, the SCO, as an important constructive force in international and regional affairs, should keep itself well-positioned in the face of changing international dynamics, ride on the trend of the times, strengthen solidarity and cooperation and build a closer SCO community with a shared future.
First, we need to enhance mutual support.
We should strengthen high-level exchanges and strategic communication, deepen mutual understanding and political trust, and support each other in our efforts to uphold security and development interests. We should guard against attempts by external forces to instigate “color revolution”, jointly oppose interference in other countries’ internal affairs under any pretext, and hold our future firmly in our own hands.
Second, we need to expand security cooperation.
A proverb in Uzbekistan goes to the effect that “With peace, a country enjoys prosperity, just as with rain, the land can flourish.” The Global Security Initiative put forward by China is to address the peace deficit and global security challenges. It calls on all countries to stay true to the vision of common, comprehensive, cooperative and sustainable security and build a balanced, effective and sustainable security architecture. We welcome all stakeholders to get involved in implementing this initiative.
We should continue to carry out joint anti-terrorism exercises, crack down hard on terrorism, separatism and extremism, drug trafficking as well as cyber and transnational organized crimes; and we should effectively meet the challenges in data security, biosecurity, outer space security and other non-traditional security domains. China is ready to train 2,000 law enforcement personnel for SCO member states in the next five years, and establish a China-SCO base for training counter-terrorism personnel, so as to enhance capacity-building for law enforcement of SCO member states.
We should ensure that the SCO-Afghanistan contact group and the mechanism of coordination and cooperation among Afghanistan’s neighbors continue to play their roles; and we should encourage Afghan authorities to establish a broadly-based and inclusive political structure and remove the ground that breeds terrorism.
Third, we need to deepen practical cooperation.
To deliver a better life for people of all countries in the region is our shared goal. The Global Development Initiative launched by China aims to focus global attention on development, foster global development partnership, and achieve more robust, greener and more balanced global development. China is ready to work with all other stakeholders to pursue this initiative in our region to support the sustainable development of regional countries.
We need to implement the two statements on safeguarding international energy and food security to be adopted by this summit and better protect energy and food security. China will provide developing countries in need with emergency humanitarian assistance of grain and other supplies worth 1.5 billion RMB yuan.
We welcome the Comprehensive Plan for the Implementation of the SCO Treaty on Long-Term Good-Neighborliness, Friendship and Cooperation for 2023-2027 to be adopted at this summit. We should fully implement the cooperation documents in such areas as trade and investment, infrastructure building, protecting supply chains, scientific and technological innovation and artificial intelligence to be adopted within the framework of the summit. It is important to continue our efforts to achieve the complementarity of the Belt and Road Initiative with national development strategies and regional cooperation initiatives, expand sub-multilateral cooperation and sub-regional cooperation, and create more growth drivers in cooperation.
We need to ensure implementation of the roadmap for SCO member states to expand shares of local currency settlement, better develop the system for cross-border payment and settlement in local currencies, work for the establishment of an SCO development bank, and thus speed up regional economic integration. Next year, China will host an SCO ministers’ meeting on development cooperation and an industrial and supply chains forum, and will set up the China-SCO Big Data Cooperation Center to create new engines of common development. China stands ready to carry out space cooperation with all other parties and provide satellite data service to support them in agricultural development, connectivity and disaster mitigation and relief.
Fourth, we need to enhance people-to-people and cultural exchanges.
Exchanges promote integration among civilizations, which, in turn, enables civilizations to advance. We should deepen cooperation in such areas as education, science and technology, culture, health, media, radio and television, ensure the continued success of signature programs such as the youth exchange camp, the women’s forum, the forum on people-to-people friendship and the forum on traditional medicine, and support the SCO Committee on Good-Neighborliness, Friendship and Cooperation and other non-official organizations in playing their due roles. China will build a China-SCO ice and snow sports demonstration zone and host the SCO forums on poverty reduction and sustainable development and on sister cities next year. In the next three years, China will carry out 2,000 free cataract operations for SCO member states and provide 5,000 human resources training opportunities for them.
Fifth, we need to uphold multilateralism.
Obsession with forming a small circle can only push the world toward division and confrontation. We should remain firm in safeguarding the UN-centered international system and the international order based on international law, practice the common values of humanity and reject zero-sum game and bloc politics. We should expand SCO’s exchanges with other international and regional organizations such as the UN, so as to jointly uphold true multilateralism, improve global governance, and ensure that the international order is more just and equitable.
Colleagues,
The Eurasian continent is home to us all. Upholding its peace and development is the shared goal of countries both in our region and the world at large, and the SCO shoulders an important responsibility in meeting this goal. In recent years, an increasing number of countries have applied to join our SCO family. This fully demonstrates the power of SCO’s vision and the widely shared confidence in its future. By promoting the development and expansion of the SCO and giving full play to its positive impact, we will create strong momentum and new dynamism for ensuring durable peace and common prosperity of the Eurasian continent and the whole world. China supports advancing SCO expansion in an active yet prudent manner, and this includes going through the procedure to admit Iran as a member state, launching the procedure for Belarus’ accession, admitting Bahrain, the Maldives, the United Arab Emirates, Kuwait and Myanmar as dialogue partners, and granting the relevant applying countries the legal status due to them. We need to seize the opportunity to build consensus, deepen cooperation and jointly create a bright future for the Eurasian continent.
Here I wish to express China’s congratulations to India on assuming the next SCO presidency. We will, together with other member states, support India during its presidency.
Colleagues,
This year, facing a complex and challenging development environment both at home and abroad, China has stayed committed to the general principle of making advances while maintaining stable performance, and it has striven to ensure both effective COVID-19 containment, economic stability and development security. We have continued to respond to COVID-19 and promote economic and social development in a well-coordinated way. Thus, to the greatest extent possible, we have both safeguarded the life and health of the people and ensured overall economic and social development. The fundamentals of China’s economy, characterized by strong resilience, enormous potential, ample room for policy adjustment and long-term sustainability, will remain sound. This will greatly boost the stability and recovery of the world economy and provide more market opportunities for other countries.
Next month, the Communist Party of China will convene its 20th National Congress. It will be an important meeting to be held at a critical time as China embarks on a new journey toward its second centenary goal of building a modern socialist country in all respects. At this national congress, the Communist Party of China will fully review the major achievements made and valuable experience gained in China’s reform and development endeavors. It will also formulate programs of action and overarching policies to meet China’s new development goals on the journey ahead in the new era and the new expectations of the people. We will continue to follow the Chinese path to modernization to achieve the rejuvenation of the Chinese nation, and we will continue to promote the building of a community with a shared future for mankind. By doing so, we will create new opportunities for the world with new advances in China’s development and contribute our vision and strength to world peace and development and human progress.
Colleagues,
Long as the journey is, we will surely reach our destination when we stay the course. Let us act in the Shanghai Spirit, work for the steady development of the SCO, and jointly build our region into a peaceful, stable, prosperous and beautiful home!
Thank you."
"Xi Jinping
President of the People’s Republic of China
“The land is fertile and crops thriving. Trees flourish, and flowers and fruits abound. A place home to steeds.” This is how Huen Tsang, an eminent Chinese monk in the Tang Dynasty over 1,300 years ago, depicted the richly-endowed Samarkand. In this lovely mid-autumn month, a season of harvest, I will once again visit the beautiful city of Samarkand at the invitation of President Shavkat Mirziyoyev, to discuss with him plans for closer cooperation between China and Uzbekistan, and to attend the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) Summit.
Both China and Uzbekistan are ancient civilizations, and the great Silk Road has borne witness to the friendly exchanges of the two peoples over the past 2,000 years and more. Several historical figures from China traveled west to visit Uzbekistan, including Zhang Qian of the Western Han Dynasty (206 BC-24 AD), Huen Tsang of the Tang Dynasty (618-907) and Chen Cheng of the Ming Dynasty (1368-1644), leaving their footprints in famous cities like Tashkent, Samarkand and Navoi. During the Yuan Dynasty (1271-1368), Sayyid Ajall Shams al-Din, a statesman whose ancestral home was in Bukhara, served as the governor of Yunnan province in China. In the mid-14th century, Wu Ru, an authority on astronomy and calendar and a native of Samarkand, participated in the construction of an observatory in Nanjing. These people were trailblazers and pioneers in the China-Uzbekistan friendship, and stories about them are still widely told in both countries.
Uzbekistan is a major country at the geopolitical center of Central Asia. Over the last 31 years since gaining independence, Uzbekistan has scored remarkable achievements in national development and rejuvenation. In recent years in particular, under the leadership of President Mirziyoyev, the people of Uzbekistan have embarked on a new journey toward a “New Uzbekistan”. Reform and development in various areas have entered the fast lane. The country has taken on a new look, its people enjoy a better life, and its international standing has risen significantly. As a friendly neighbor and comprehensive strategic partner, China feels truly happy for Uzbekistan.
This year marks the 30th anniversary of China-Uzbekistan diplomatic ties. Over the past three decades, the giant tree of our relationship has taken deeper roots and grown more exuberant. The two countries have respected each other, fostered good-neighborliness, strengthened solidarity and pursued mutual benefit. Cooperation across the board has yielded concrete results.
— We are good friends sharing close affinity.
Since 2016, President Mirziyoyev and I have stayed in close contact and forged a good working relationship and deep personal friendship through meetings, phone calls and correspondence. Under a comprehensive strategic partnership, the two countries have rendered mutual support on issues concerning each other’s core interests, supported each other’s implementation of development strategies, drawn upon each other’s experience of reform and opening-up, and injected positive energy into regional development.
— We are good partners pursuing common development.
China is the biggest trading partner and a major investor for Uzbekistan. Two-way trade exceeded US$8 billion in 2021, approached US$5 billion in the first half of this year, and is on course to reach the US$10-billion goal set for 2022. Cooperation under the Belt and Road Initiative has been fruitful, and major projects are making steady progress. All four lines of the China-Central Asia natural gas pipeline run through Uzbekistan. The tunnel on the Angren-Pap railway line, the longest tunnel in Central Asia, has been successfully completed. More transport potential is being unleashed from the China-Kyrgyzstan-Uzbekistan highway and the China-Kazakhstan-Uzbekistan railway. And preparations for the China-Kyrgyzstan-Uzbekistan railway project are well under way. Uzbekistan is thus transforming from a land-locked to a land-linked country. The two sides have also carried out robust cooperation in new energy, agriculture, finance and modern telecommunications, delivering greater benefits to the two peoples.
— We are a good example of dialogue between civilizations.
The two sides have held a wide range of exchanges including art festivals, culture promotion events, exhibitions and seminars. Cooperation is flourishing with regard to sending students, translating publications, making films, translating TV series, and conducting sub-national interactions and personnel training, which has effectively brought the two peoples still closer. In recent years, China has trained for Uzbekistan over 6,500 professionals of various fields. They are taking an active part in Uzbekistan’s reform and development endeavors. Confucius Institutes have been set up in Tashkent and Samarkand where a great number of Uzbeks learned the Chinese language and they have become envoys of friendship between our two countries. Cooperation in tourism is taking off, bringing more Chinese to the beautiful land of Uzbekistan. The preservation and restoration of historical sites in Khiva, a project launched during my visit to Samarkand in 2013, has been successfully concluded, further augmenting the charm of this ancient city.
— We are good brothers supporting each other in times of need.
China and Uzbekistan, with their interests closely entwined, have stood together through thick and thin. We have maintained close coordination both bilaterally and in such regional and multilateral frameworks as the SCO. We have worked together to oppose external interference, combat the three forces of terrorism, separatism and extremism, and tackle transnational organized crimes and drug trafficking. By strengthening intelligence sharing and expanding personnel training, we have jointly forged a strong shield of security. In face of the COVID-19 pandemic, our two countries have supported each other and conducted active cooperation. Chinese vaccines, which can now be jointly produced with Uzbekistan, have played a major role in Uzbekistan’s fight against the virus, and a Chinese COVID drug has been approved for clinical use in Uzbekistan, providing effective protection for the life of people in both countries.
Over 2,000 years of friendly exchanges and three decades of mutually beneficial cooperation show that enhancing China-Uzbekistan cooperation on all fronts conforms to the trend of history and meets the fundamental interests of both peoples. Standing at the intersection of past and future, we are full of confidence and expectation for a more promising prospect of China-Uzbekistan relations.
First, we need to enhance mutual support and strengthen the bond of mutual trust.
We need to set out the blueprint for China-Uzbekistan relations in the new era from a strategic and long-term perspective. We need to intensify high-level exchanges, increase mutual political trust, deepen the sharing of governance experience, and continue to render mutual support on issues concerning each other’s core interests. China firmly supports Uzbekistan in pursuing a development path suited to its own national conditions and opposes interference in Uzbekistan’s internal affairs by any force.
Second, we need to deepen mutually beneficial cooperation to pursue common development and prosperity.
We should forge a better synergy between our development strategies and jointly explore new pathways to bilateral cooperation in economy, trade, investment, key projects and other fields. China has entered a new development stage and is making active efforts to foster a new development paradigm. Uzbekistan is welcome to board the express train of China’s development and share its development opportunities. Next year marks the tenth anniversary of the launch of the Belt and Road Initiative. Our two sides could use this opportunity and harness the momentum to further flesh out the bilateral cooperation and pursue high-quality development together. We also need to expand cooperation on poverty reduction and alleviation so that more people in both countries benefit from our mutually beneficial cooperation.
China hopes to work with Uzbekistan to actively implement the Global Development Initiative, and take concerted actions to safeguard the interests of developing countries and foster a balanced, coordinated and inclusive development landscape that embraces win-win cooperation, works for all and delivers common prosperity.
Third, we need to strengthen security cooperation to defuse risks and challenges.
Our two sides need to deepen cooperation in the security field and unequivocally reject attempts by any force to undermine regional security, to foster a secure external environment for the development of both countries. Afghanistan is a mutual neighbor of China and Uzbekistan. A peaceful, stable, growing and prosperous Afghanistan is in our shared interests. China appreciates and supports the unique role of Uzbekistan in resolving the issue of Afghanistan. We stand ready to work with Uzbekistan to put the Global Security Initiative into action, fend off new threats and challenges, and uphold peace, stability and international fairness and justice.
Fourth, we need to promote cultural exchanges to enhance people-to-people connectivity.
Between relatives and friends alike, with closer interaction the affinity grows. The China-Uzbekistan friendship enjoys a time-honored history and our cooperation on people-to-people exchanges has a solid foundation and bright prospects. We need to expand cooperation in the areas of media, education, health, culture, tourism, press, archeology and at the sub-national level, open culture centers in each other’s countries at an earlier time and set up a Luban Workshop in Uzbekistan, to foster a multi-faceted framework of people-to-people exchanges. This will help sustain the growth of China-Uzbekistan relations and build a lasting friendship between our peoples.
During my visit to Uzbekistan this time, I will attend the SCO Samarkand Summit. This year marks the 20th anniversary of the signing of the
Charter of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization
and the 15th anniversary of the signing of the
Treaty on Long-Term Good-Neighborliness, Friendship and Cooperation of the Member States of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization
. Guided by the purposes and principles enshrined in these two documents, the SCO has acted on the Shanghai Spirit, stayed true to its founding mission, and promoted the joint efforts among its member states for stability and development. The SCO has set a fine example of a new type of international relations featuring mutual respect, fairness, justice and win-win cooperation, and proved itself an important and constructive force in the Eurasian region and in international affairs.
Since assuming SCO presidency, despite the impacts from COVID-19, Uzbekistan has strengthened communication and coordination with other member states, made solid efforts on various fronts, and preserved the SCO’s momentum of sound and steady development. China applauds Uzbekistan for its efforts. I am confident that with the joint efforts of all sides, the Samarkand Summit will produce fruitful outcomes and make greater contribution to building an even closer SCO community with a shared future and to peace, stability, development and prosperity of our region.
As the saying goes, when your heart knows its direction, the distance to destination will never be long. Bearing in mind the original aspiration upon the establishment of our diplomatic relations, China will work with Uzbekistan to seize the historical opportunities, forge ahead side by side on the path of national development and rejuvenation, and make joint efforts toward the goal of building a China-Uzbekistan community with a shared future."
"Xi Jinping
President of the People’s Republic of China
In the charming season of autumn, I will be making a state visit to the friendly country of Kazakhstan at the invitation of President Kassym-Jomart Tokayev. After an interval of five years, it will be my fourth visit to the beautiful country known for its vast steppe, majestic landscape and hospitable people. I very much look forward to the visit.
Bound together by mountains and rivers and common interests, China and Kazakhstan are good neighbors, good friends and good partners. For thousands of years, the two peoples have had amicable ties, jointly writing an epic of east-west interactions along the ancient Silk Road. Huen Tsang, an eminent Tang Dynasty monk (602-664), and Chen Cheng, a Ming Dynasty envoy (1365-1457), both set foot on Kazakhstan. Al-Farabi the “Eastern Aristotle”, Abai Kunanbayev the “sage poet”, and other towering cultural figures of Kazakhstan enjoy widespread fame in China. To this day, their stories are still being told among the two peoples.
This year marks the 30th anniversary of diplomatic relations between China and Kazakhstan. Over the past three decades, we have braved wind and rain, with our hands always held firmly together. Our interactions and cooperation have become ever more vibrant, and we have travelled an extraordinary path side by side.
— Over the past 30 years, China-Kazakhstan relations have made big strides.
We have continuously advanced our relationship from good neighbors to strategic partners and to permanent comprehensive strategic partners. This incomparable characterization of our ties has enabled us to develop a new type of state-to-state relations featuring mutual respect, good-neighborly friendship, solidarity in trying times, and win-win cooperation. We always give each other unwavering support on the core issues bearing on our respective sovereignty, security and territorial integrity. We always respect each other’s choice of development path based on national conditions. And we always take pleasure in each other’s sustained progress in development and national rejuvenation. We are friends to trust and partners to count on for each other, and our peoples always stand shoulder to shoulder with each other.
—Over the past 30 years, China-Kazakhstan cooperation has yielded remarkable results.
In recent years, China has been solidly one of Kazakhstan’s leading partners for trade and investment. Navigating the impact of COVID-19, we were able to again bring our bilateral trade above the US$25 billion mark last year, jointly giving a boost to global economic recovery. China and Kazakhstan are pioneers in production capacity and investment cooperation; our cooperation list includes 52 projects worth a total of more than US$21.2 billion. We have completed a number of major strategic projects, such as the 100-MW Zhanatas wind farm, the JAC automobile factory, and Shymkent Oil Refinery modernization. They have been a strong driving force for economic and social progress in Kazakhstan, and have delivered tangible benefits to our two peoples.
—Over the past 30 years, China and Kazakhstan have built extensive infrastructure links.
We have put in place a multidimensional transportation network composed of road, railway, aviation, and oil and gas pipelines. And we are resolved to build a Eurasian land-sea multimodal “transportation artery” to offer convenient and efficient services. At all of our five road crossings and two rail crossings, normal cargo flows have resumed. And we are in close communication about opening another rail crossing. At the China-Kazakhstan International Logistics Base in the eastern Chinese port of Lianyungang, products from Kazakhstan set sail for the Pacific Ocean. The China-Europe freight trains are running through Kazakhstan via more routes, making an important contribution to the stability of global industrial and supply chains.
—Over the past 30 years, China-Kazakhstan friendship has taken deep roots among our peoples.
In Kazakhstan, there are five Confucius Institutes; in China, four universities have opened institutes on Kazakhstan studies and two have added the Kazakh language as a major. The heart-warming story of Xian Xinghai and Bakhtzhan Baikadamov, two great composers in our respective countries, has been turned into a movie. Dr. Saulebek Kabilbekov of Kazakhstan has been working for 24 years in the Daqing Ophthalmology Hospital of Heilongjiang Province, treating nearly 200,000 Chinese patients. China and Kazakhstan will soon establish cultural centers in each other’s countries, and Kazakhstan will host a center of traditional medicine and a Luban Workshop. Our cultural and people-to-people exchanges will make greater strides, and the friendship between our peoples will continue to thrive on an increasingly solid foundation.
Having stood the test of the changing circumstances and the passage of time, China-Kazakhstan relations have long become rock-solid. We should cherish this hard-won achievement, and work harder to carry on the cause of friendship between our two countries. During my upcoming visit, I will have in-depth discussions with President Tokayev on how to further the China-Kazakhstan permanent comprehensive strategic partnership and how to advance our mutually beneficial cooperation across the board. We will set out plans for working together to promote China-Kazakhstan relations with the objective and vision of building a China-Kazakhstan community with a shared future.
First, we need to carry forward our good-neighborly friendship.
Deep political mutual trust is the bedrock of the steady and sustained development of China-Kazakhstan relations. China is willing to work with Kazakhstan to make top-level designs for the relationship from a strategic and long-term perspective, maintain close high-level interactions, and enhance exchanges and cooperation between our governments, legislatures, political parties and localities at various levels. We should make good use of the regular Prime Ministers’ Meetings and the China-Kazakhstan Cooperation Committee and its sub-committees, continue to give each other firm support on issues concerning our respective core interests and major concerns, and make continuous efforts to cement the political foundation of China-Kazakhstan relations.
Second, we need to further deepen mutually beneficial cooperation.
Next year will be the tenth anniversary of the Silk Road Economic Belt initiative that I first proposed during my visit to Kazakhstan in 2013. From laying the groundwork to building pillars and frameworks, to delivering results on the ground, and to achieving sustainable progress, the Belt and Road Initiative has become a platform for international cooperation that is open, inclusive, mutually beneficial and promotes win-win cooperation and a global public good widely welcomed by the international community. Setting our sight beyond the pandemic, China would like to partner with Kazakhstan to remain pioneers in Belt and Road cooperation. We should improve investment and trade facilitation, fully unleash the potential of border ports and cross-border transportation, and cultivate new sources of growth such as artificial intelligence, big data, digital finance, e-commerce and green energy. We should commit ourselves to a series of new quality projects that are high-standard, sustainable, and beneficial to the people, bring bilateral cooperation to a higher level, and put the Global Development Initiative into action, so as to contribute our shares to world economic recovery.
Third, we need to firmly safeguard common security.
In the face of complex regional and international landscapes, only by embracing unity and cooperation can we overcome difficulties of our times and resolve challenges in security governance. China would like to deepen law enforcement, security and defense cooperation with Kazakhstan. Guided by the Global Security Initiative, we should act on the concept of common, comprehensive, cooperative and sustainable security, and work together to promote the implementation of the Data Security Cooperation Initiative of China+Central Asia. We should join hands to combat terrorism, separatism, extremism, drug trafficking and transnational organized crimes, and ensure the security of oil and gas pipelines and other large cooperation projects and their personnel. We should resolutely oppose interference by external forces and work together for lasting peace and long-term stability of our region.
Fourth, we need to strengthen international coordination in all respects.
We need to enhance coordination within multilateral frameworks such as the UN, the SCO, CICA, and China+Central Asia. We should exchange views timely on international governance, food security, energy security, industrial and supply chains stability, and regional hotspots. We should reject unilateralism and bloc confrontation, and jointly push for an international order that is more just and more equitable.
The Communist Party of China (CPC) will convene its 20th National Congress soon. It will be a gathering of great significance at an important moment as the CPC embarks on a new journey of building a modern socialist country in all respects and marching toward the second centenary goal. We are glad to see that the construction of a New Kazakhstan has been fully launched, and that Kazakhstan is making strides toward the goal of becoming one of the world’s top 30 most developed states. China stands ready to continue to share development achievements with Kazakhstan and learn from each other’s development experience. China’s door of opening-up and friendly cooperation will always be open to Kazakhstan.
As a Kazakh proverb goes, “Friendship is an inexhaustible wealth.” China believes that as long as we keep to the principle of good-neighborly friendship and deepen all-round win-win cooperation, we will surely usher in a more splendid thirty years in China-Kazakhstan relations."
"Remarks by H.E. Xi Jinping
President of the People’s Republic of China
At the High-level Dialogue on Global Development
24 June 2022
Dear Colleagues:
Development is a timeless theme for humanity. In the late 1960s, I worked as a farmer in a small village on the Loess Plateau. There I experienced first-hand the hardships in farming and saw how the local people struggled to make ends meet. Their longing for a better life has stayed in my mind ever since. Half a century later, I revisited the village and found the villagers no longer in want of food or clothing, as evidenced by the happy smiles on their faces.
As an ancient Chinese saying goes, “Only when the granary is full will people learn etiquette; only when people are well-fed and clothed will they know honor and shame.” Throughout the years, I have been to cities, towns and villages across China and visited many countries in the world. One deep impression I get is that only through continuous development can the people’s dream for a better life and social stability be realized.
Over the years, developing countries have worked unremittingly to explore development paths suited to their national realities and to pursue economic and social development. Such efforts have produced remarkable outcomes. Today, emerging markets and developing countries account for half of the world economy, and notable progress has been made in science and technology, education, social development, culture and many other areas.
We are meeting at a time when the COVID-19 pandemic is eroding decades of gains in global development, the implementation of the UN’s 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development is encountering difficulties, the North-South gap keeps widening, and crises are emerging in food and energy security. Some countries have politicized and marginalized the development issue, built “a small yard with high fences”, imposed maximum sanctions, and stoked division and confrontation. At the same time, people in all countries are more keen about pursuing peace, development and cooperation, emerging markets and developing countries are more resolved to seek strength through unity, and the new round of scientific and technological revolution and industrial transformation is bringing more opportunities to countries around the world.
This is an age rife with challenges, but it is also an age full of hope. We must get a good grasp of the overarching development trend in the world, firm up confidence, and act in unison and with great motivation to promote global development and foster a development paradigm featuring benefits for all, balance, coordination, inclusiveness, win-win cooperation and common prosperity.
First, we need to jointly build international consensus on promoting development.
Only when people all over the world live better lives can prosperity be sustained, security safeguarded and human rights solidly grounded. It is important that we put development front and center on the international agenda, deliver on the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, and build political consensus to ensure everyone values development and all countries pursue cooperation together.
Second, we need to jointly create an enabling international environment for development.
Protectionist moves will boomerang; anyone attempting to form exclusive blocs will end up isolating himself; maximum sanctions serve nobody’s interest, and practices of decoupling and supply disruption are neither feasible nor sustainable. It is important that we pursue development in real earnest and promote development in concert, build an open world economy, and shape a global governance system and institutional environment that are more just and equitable.
Third, we need to jointly foster new drivers for global development.
Innovation is the primary driving force for development. It is important that we promote scientific, technological and institutional innovation, speed up technology transfer and knowledge sharing, boost the development of modern industries, close the digital divide and accelerate low-carbon transition, with a view to achieving stronger, greener and healthier global development.
Fourth, we need to jointly forge a global development partnership.
Only by working together can we accomplish big and great things with a far-reaching impact. Developed countries need to fulfill obligations, developing countries need to deepen cooperation, and the North and the South need to work in the same direction to forge a united, equal, balanced and inclusive global development partnership. In this process, no country or individual should be left behind. It is important that we support the UN in steering and coordinating global development cooperation, and encourage business communities, social groups, the media and think tanks to take part in such cooperation.
Colleagues,
China has always been a member of the big family of developing countries. At last year’s UN General Assembly session, I put forth the Global Development Initiative (GDI). China will take pragmatic steps to give continued support to the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
— China will allocate more resources for global development cooperation. We will upgrade the South-South Cooperation Assistance Fund to a Global Development and South-South Cooperation Fund, and add US$1 billion to the fund on top of the US$3 billion already committed. We will also increase input to the UN Peace and Development Trust Fund. Such efforts will further support cooperation under the GDI.
— China will work with all sides to advance cooperation in priority areas and mobilize resources for development to deepen global cooperation on poverty reduction and eradication, build capacity for food production and supply, and promote clean energy partnerships; step up innovation, research and development and joint production of vaccines; work on the conservation and sustainable use of land and marine ecology; and raise digital literacy and skills of the public, transform and upgrade the path to industrialization at a faster pace, and enhance digital-era connectivity to inject new impetus into the development of all countries.
— China will set up a platform for experience and knowledge sharing on international development, a global development promotion center and a global knowledge network for development, for the purpose of exchanging governance experience and promoting mutual learning. We will host a global forum on youth development and take part in the launch of a global action plan on youth development, in a bid to pool as much strength as possible for the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
As an ancient Chinese adage goes, “With one heart and one mind, we can accomplish everything we aspire for.” Let us firm up confidence, stride forward in pursuit of high-quality partnership, and usher in a new era of prosperity and development.
Thank you."
"Remarks by H.E. Xi Jinping
President of the People’s Republic of China
At the 14th BRICS Summit
23 June 2022
Dear Colleagues,
Our world today is living through accelerating changes unseen in a century and continued spread of the COVID-19 pandemic. They confront humanity with unprecedented challenges and usher in a new phase of instability and transformation for global development.
The Chinese people often say, “True gold can stand the test of fire.” Over the past 16 years, the giant ship of BRICS has sailed forward tenaciously against raging torrents and storms. Riding the wind and cleaving the waves, it has embarked on a righteous course of mutual support and win-win cooperation. Standing at the crossroads of history, we should both look back at the journey we have traveled and keep in mind why we established BRICS in the first place, and look forward to a shared future of a more comprehensive, close, practical and inclusive high-quality partnership so as to jointly embark on a new journey of BRICS cooperation.
First, we need to uphold solidarity and safeguard world peace and tranquility.
Our world today is overshadowed by the dark clouds of Cold War mentality and power politics, and beset by constantly emerging traditional and non-traditional security threats. Some countries attempt to expand military alliances to seek absolute security, stoke bloc-based confrontation by coercing other countries into picking sides, and pursue unilateral dominance at the expense of others’ rights and interests. If such dangerous trends are allowed to continue, the world will witness even more turbulence and insecurity.
It is important that BRICS countries support each other on issues concerning core interests, practice true multilateralism, safeguard justice, fairness and solidarity and reject hegemony, bullying and division. This year, we have held the Foreign Ministers’ Meeting and the Meeting of High Representatives on National Security, deepened cooperation on counter-terrorism, cybersecurity and other issues, enhanced coordination at the United Nations and other multilateral institutions, and spoke out for justice on the international stage.
Not long ago, I put forward the Global Security Initiative (GSI), which advocates a vision of common, comprehensive, cooperative and sustainable security, follows the philosophy that humanity is an indivisible security community, and aims to create a new path to security that features dialogue over confrontation, partnership over alliance and win-win over zero-sum. China would like to work with BRICS partners to operationalize the GSI and bring more stability and positive energy to the world.
Second, we need to uphold cooperation to boost development and jointly tackle risks and challenges.
The combination of the COVID-19 pandemic and the Ukraine crisis has resulted in disruptions to global industrial and supply chains, sustained hikes of commodity prices, and weaker international monetary and financial systems. All these have cast shadows over development worldwide, and emerging markets and developing countries bear the brunt. But just as a crisis may bring chaos, it can also spur change. A lot will ride on how we handle the crisis.
This year, we launched the BRICS Initiative on Enhancing Cooperation on Supply Chains and the Initiative on Trade and Investment for Sustainable Development, adopted the Agreement on Cooperation and Mutual Administrative Assistance in Customs Matters and the Strategy on Food Security Cooperation, and held a High-level Meeting on Climate Change for the first time. We should make good use of these new platforms to boost connectivity of industrial and supply chains and jointly meet challenges in poverty reduction, agriculture, energy, logistics and other fields. We should support greater development of the New Development Bank and a steady process to admit new members, and improve the Contingent Reserve Arrangement to cement the BRICS financial safety net and firewall. We should also expand BRICS cooperation on cross-border payment and credit rating to facilitate trade, investment and financing among our countries.
Last year, I put forward the Global Development Initiative (GDI), which aims to re-energize the implementation of the UN’s 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and build a global community of development. China stands ready to work with BRICS partners to add more substance to the GDI and contribute to stronger, greener and healthier global development.
Third, we need to uphold the pioneering spirit and innovation and unleash the potential and vitality of cooperation.
Those who seize the opportunities of the new economy, such as big data and artificial intelligence, are in sync with the pulse of the times. Those who seek to create monopoly, blockade and barriers in science and technology in order to disrupt other countries’ innovation and development and hold on to their dominant position are doomed to fail.
We need to improve global science and technology governance and allow more people to access and benefit from the fruits of scientific and technological advances. This year, we have accelerated the building of the BRICS Partnership on New Industrial Revolution Innovation Center in Xiamen, hosted the Forum on the Development of Industrial Internet and Digital Manufacturing and the Forum on Big Data for Sustainable Development, reached the Digital Economy Partnership Framework, issued the Initiative for Cooperation on Digitalization of Manufacturing, and established a network of technology transfer centers and an aerospace cooperation mechanism. All these have opened new channels for closer industrial policy coordination between BRICS countries. Recognizing the importance of talents in the digital age, we have set up the Alliance for Vocational Education, and organized the Skills Competition and the Women Innovation Contest to build a talent pool for stronger BRICS cooperation on innovation and entrepreneurship.
Fourth, we need to uphold openness and inclusiveness and pool collective wisdom and strength.
BRICS countries gather not in a closed club or an exclusive circle, but a big family of mutual support and a partnership for win-win cooperation. At the Xiamen Summit in 2017, I proposed the “BRICS Plus” cooperation approach. Over the past five years, “BRICS Plus” cooperation has deepened and expanded, setting a prime example of South-South cooperation and seeking strength through unity among emerging markets and developing countries.
Under the new circumstances, it is all the more important for BRICS countries to pursue development with open doors and boost cooperation with open arms. This year we, for the first time, invited guest countries to attend the BRICS Foreign Ministers’ Meeting. The newly established BRICS Vaccine R&D Center has an unequivocal commitment to openness. Step by step, we have organized a variety of “BRICS Plus” events in such areas as scientific and technological innovation, people-to-people exchanges and sustainable development. All these provide new platforms for cooperation among emerging markets and developing countries.
In recent years, many countries have asked to join the BRICS cooperation mechanism. Bringing in fresh blood will inject new vitality into BRICS cooperation and increase the representativeness and influence of BRICS. This year we have, on separate occasions, had in-depth discussions on the question of membership expansion. It is important to advance this process to allow like-minded partners to become part of the BRICS family at an early date.
Colleagues,
As representatives of emerging markets and developing countries, we must make the right decision and take responsible actions at this critical juncture of history. What we do will have a significant impact on the world. Let us stay united, pool strength and forge ahead to build a community with a shared future for mankind and jointly create a bright future for humanity.
Thank you."
"Keynote Speech by H.E. Xi Jinping
President of the People’s Republic of China
At the Opening Ceremony of the BRICS Business Forum
22 June 2022
Dear Colleagues,
Members of the Business Community,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
I am glad to attend the BRICS Business Forum, and I wish to extend a warm welcome to all of you.
Right now, our world is facing drastic changes and a pandemic both unseen in a century. Various security challenges keep emerging. The world economy still faces strong headwinds on its path toward recovery, and global development has suffered major setbacks. Where is the world headed: Peace or war? Progress or regression? Openness or isolation? Cooperation or confrontation? These are choices of the times that we are confronted with.
Human history, like a river, keeps surging forward, with moments of both calm waters and huge waves. Despite changes in an evolving global environment, the historical trend of openness and development will not reverse course, and our shared desire to meet challenges together through cooperation will remain as strong as ever. We should stand high and not allow ourselves to be distracted by fleeting clouds, and we should have a keen appreciation of the law governing the advance of history. We should refuse to be led astray by any turn of events or intimidated by any risk. We should rise to challenge and forge ahead with resolve toward the goal of building a community with a shared future for mankind.
First, we should embrace solidarity and coordination and jointly maintain world peace and stability.
We in China believe that “history, if not forgotten, can serve as a guide for the future”. In the past century, humanity have gone through the scourge of two world wars and the dark shadow of the Cold War. The tragedies of the past tell us that hegemony, group politics and bloc confrontation bring no peace or security; they only lead to wars and conflicts. The Ukraine crisis is another wake-up call for all in the world. It reminds us that blind faith in the so-called “position of strength” and attempts to expand military alliances and seek one’s own security at the expense of others will only land oneself in a security dilemma.
History tells us that peace, which is the common cause of humanity, should be pursued and defended by all. Only when we all cherish and uphold peace and never forget the painful lessons of war can there be hope of peace. Facing a volatile and unstable world, we should stay true to the pledge of the UN Charter and fulfill the mission of maintaining peace. Not long ago, I put forward the Global Security Initiative, calling on all countries to stay committed to the vision of common, comprehensive, cooperative and sustainable security; stay committed to respecting the sovereignty and territorial integrity of all countries; stay committed to abiding by the purposes and principles of the UN Charter; stay committed to taking the legitimate security concerns of all countries seriously; stay committed to peacefully resolving differences and disputes between countries through dialogue and consultation; and stay committed to maintaining security in both traditional and non-traditional domains. We in the international community should reject zero-sum games and jointly oppose hegemonism and power politics. We should build a new type of international relations based on mutual respect, fairness, justice and win-win cooperation. We should be clear that we are a community in which all countries share a common stake, and we should see that the light of peace will reach all corners of the world.
Second, we should reach out to each other and jointly promote sustainable global development.
Development holds the key to solving various difficult problems and delivering better lives to the people. Today, the global development process has hit major roadblocks, the momentum of international development cooperation is being weakened, and development gap between the North and the South keeps widening. As a result, the global efforts to implement the UN’s 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development have suffered major setbacks. Almost 1.2 billion people in nearly 70 countries are confronted with COVID-19, food, energy and debt crises. What has been achieved in decades of global poverty reduction efforts could be lost.
Last year, I put forward the Global Development Initiative, and I called on all countries to implement the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, forge united, equal, balanced and inclusive global development partnership, and promote cooperation in a wide range of areas such as poverty reduction, public health, education, digital connectivity and industrialization. We should deepen cooperation to better safeguard food and energy security. We should seize opportunities presented by the new scientific and technological revolution and industrial transformation, and promote the flow of factors of production that enable innovation globally. We should help developing countries speed up development of the digital economy and green transformation. We should also engage in cooperation on COVID-19 response and provide more anti-COVID medicines to developing countries so as to beat the virus at an early date.
In two days, China will host the High-level Dialogue on Global Development to discuss ways to promote global development. We should respond to people’s concerns, pursue the larger interests of all countries, and steer global development to a new era to deliver benefit to all.
Third, we should tide over difficulties together and jointly pursue win-win cooperation.
At present, some important industrial and supply chains are suffering from deliberate disruptions, commodity prices remain high and are fluctuating, global inflation keeps rising, the international financial market is in turmoil, and global economic recovery is losing steam. People have reason to be concerned that the world economy might slip into a crisis.
At this critical juncture, tiding over difficulties together and pursuing cooperation is the only way for us to forestall an economic crisis. We should come together with a united purpose and strengthen macroeconomic policy coordination to prevent the slowdown and even halt of the global recovery. Major developed countries should adopt responsible economic policies and avoid negative policy spillovers that may take a heavy toll on developing countries. It has been proved time and again that sanctions are a boomerang and a double-edged sword. To politicize the global economy and turn it into one’s tool or weapon, and willfully impose sanctions by using one’s primary position in the international financial and monetary systems will only end up hurting one’s own interests as well as those of others, and inflict suffering on everyone.
Fourth, we should be inclusive and jointly expand openness and integration.
The rapid economic globalization that we have seen since the end of the Cold War has greatly boosted the movement of goods and capital and advances in technology and civilization. A more open and inclusive world will create greater development opportunities for all and deliver a more prosperous future for all.
For some time, however, economic globalization has faced headwinds and countercurrents. Some countries attempt to decouple with others, sever supply chains and build “a small yard with high fences”. There is widespread concern in the international community that should such a tendency continue, the global economy will become compartmentalized and mutually exclusive. Economic globalization is a response to development of productivity and, as such, represents an unstoppable historical trend. Anyone who attempts to turn back the wheel of history and block others’ way will only have his own path blocked.
As an ancient Chinese saying goes, “Constant piling up of earth makes Mount Tai great; ceaseless inflow of rivers makes the ocean deep.” Inclusiveness, shared benefits and win-win outcomes is what we should pursue. We should stay committed to openness and inclusiveness, eliminate all barriers to the development of productivity, and steer globalization in the right direction. This will boost the free flow of capital and technology, unleash the full potential of innovation and creativity, and foster synergy in boosting global economic growth. We should uphold the WTO-centered multilateral trading system, remove barriers to trade, investment and technology, and keep the global economy open. We should promote extensive consultation and joint contribution to deliver shared benefits, enhance global economic governance, and increase the representation and say of emerging markets and developing countries. This will ensure that all countries enjoy equal rights, follow the rules as equals, and share equal opportunities.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
This year, facing a complicated and challenging domestic and international environment for development, China has risen to various challenges and taken well-coordinated steps to respond to COVID-19 and pursue economic and social development. Putting the people and their lives first, China has built a strong line of defense against the virus, and consolidated the gains made in COVID-19 response. Thanks to these efforts, we have protected people’s lives and health and ensured overall stable performance in economic and social development to the maximum extent possible. We will step up macroeconomic policy adjustment, and adopt more forceful measures to deliver the economic and social development goals for the whole year and minimize the impact of COVID-19.
In the second half of this year, the Communist Party of China will convene its 20th National Congress, which will chart the course for the next phase of China’s development. We will ground our efforts in the new development stage, follow the new development philosophy, foster a new development paradigm and strive to achieve high-quality development. China will continue to pursue opening-up against higher standards, develop new systems for a higher-standard open economy, and continue to foster a market- and law-based and internationalized business environment. I warmly welcome you to invest and do business in China, strengthen business cooperation with China, and share in China’s development opportunities.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
The BRICS mechanism is an important cooperation platform for emerging markets and developing countries. The business community is a dynamic force driving BRICS’ effective cooperation. Over the years, you in the business communities of BRICS countries have kept exploring new ground, unlocked the potential of cooperation among the five countries, and made important contribution to the development of BRICS countries. Your efforts deserve full recognition.
BRICS cooperation has now entered a new stage of high-quality development. I hope that you business leaders will continue to act with tenacity and in a pioneering spirit, and champion open, innovative and shared development so as to add new impetus to BRICS cooperation. You should tap into the complementarity of BRICS countries’ diverse economic structures and resources, upgrade cooperation on trade, investment and finance, expand cooperation on cross-border e-commerce, logistics, local currencies and credit rating, and keep industrial and supply chains safe and unclogged. I hope you will actively participate in building the BRICS Partnership on New Industrial Revolution, strengthen cooperation on digital economy, smart manufacturing, clean energy and low-carbon technology, and support the industrial restructuring and upgrading in BRICS countries. I hope you will advance cooperation on energy, food, infrastructure and skill training, fulfill your social responsibilities, and see that more benefits of development will reach everyone in a more equitable way.
I am convinced that as long as we hoist high the sail of mutual benefit and win-win and keep a steady hand on the tiller of solidarity and cooperation, we will break waves and steer the giant ship of BRICS countries toward a brighter future!
To conclude, I wish the BRICS Business Forum a full success!
Thank you."
"18 May 2022
Your Excellencies Heads of State and International Organizations,
Distinguished Guests,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
Good evening. It is a great pleasure to meet you all online. To begin with, I wish to offer my warmest congratulations on the 70th anniversary of the China Council for the Promotion of International Trade (CCPIT) and a sincere welcome to all guests attending the Global Trade and Investment Promotion Summit. I also wish to express our heartfelt appreciation and best regards to friends from all walks of life at home and overseas for your longstanding care and support to China’s reform, opening-up and modernization efforts.
Founded in 1952 as a China-based institution with a global outlook, the CCPIT has been playing an important role in strengthening the bond of interest between Chinese and foreign businesses, promoting international economic and trade exchanges, and facilitating state-to-state relations. True to its founding mission of serving Chinese and foreign businesses, the Council has worked to promote trade and investment and advance China’s institutional opening-up. It has explored innovations in international economic and trade arbitration, intellectual property right services, and commercial mediation, among others. It has kept up close ties with business communities across countries, provided platforms and opportunities for trade and economic cooperation between China and the rest of the world, and contributed to an economic globalization that is more open, inclusive, balanced and beneficial for all. The 70-year journey of the CCPIT has been an epitome of China’s ever-expanding opening-up endeavor, and an important witness of how businesses from different countries could share in development opportunities and benefit from win-win cooperation.
It is my hope that the Council will continue to break new ground with its tradition of excellence, strengthen its service network for businesses, expand its international circle of friends, and score still greater achievements in contributing to high-quality development and a new development paradigm in China and to an open world economy.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
Our world is facing a pandemic and drastic changes both unseen in a century. Economic globalization is experiencing headwinds, and the world is entering a new period of volatility and transformation. Now more than ever, business communities across the world yearn for peace and development, call for fairness and justice, and aspire for win-win cooperation. For this to happen, I would advise efforts on the following four fronts.
First, we need to pull together to defeat COVID-19.
The pandemic has been going on unabated. Resurging with ever faster transmission, it is posing a serious threat to the life and health of the people, and taking a heavy toll on the world economy. We must put people and their lives first, actively engage in international cooperation on vaccine R&D, production and distribution, bolster global public health governance, jointly build multiple lines of defense against the virus, and work for a global community of health for all.
Second, we need to reinvigorate trade and investment.
We need to balance pandemic response and economic development, strengthen macroeconomic policy coordination across countries, and get the global economy out of the woods at an early date. China has put forward a Global Development Initiative, which calls for concerted efforts to advance the UN’s 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development in all respects. We need to help the global economy upgrade its growth drivers, shift its growth model and adjust its structure so as to steer it onto a track of long-term, healthy and stable growth. We should support the WTO-centered multilateral trading regime, ensure security and stability of the global industrial and supply chains, and make the “pie” of cooperation bigger to allow development gains to better trickle down to people of all countries.
Third, we need to unleash the power of innovation in driving development.
We should tap into the potential of innovation in spurring growth, jointly step up intellectual property protection, make rules on the basis of extensive participation and consensus building, and foster an open, fair, equitable and non-discriminatory environment for scientific and technological development. We should intensify exchanges and cooperation on innovation, facilitate integration of science and technology with economic growth, increase the sharing of innovation results, and remove all barriers that hamper the flow of knowledge, technology, talent and other factors of innovation. By doing so, we will better unleash the gushing vitality of innovation.
Fourth, we need to improve on global governance.
In today’s world, the future of all countries is closely linked. Seeking exclusive blocs will only lead the world to division and confrontation. We should uphold true multilateralism, embrace a global governance vision featuring extensive consultation, joint contribution and shared benefits, and mobilize resources from across the world to meet global challenges and advance global development. We should choose dialogue over confrontation, tear down walls rather than erect walls, pursue integration instead of decoupling, opt for inclusiveness, not exclusion, and guide reforms of the global governance system with the principle of fairness and justice.
I wish to reiterate that China’s resolve to open up at a high standard will not change, and that the door of China will open still wider to the world. China will continue to foster an enabling business environment that is based on market principles, governed by law and up to international standards. We will pursue high-standard implementation of the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) agreement and high-quality Belt and Road cooperation, and offer more market, investment and growth opportunities to the global business community.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
Let us join hands to uphold peace, development, cooperation and win-win partnership, work together to meet the problems facing the global economy, trade and investment, and jointly usher in an even brighter future.
To conclude, I wish the Conference a full success."
"Keynote Speech by H.E. Xi Jinping
President of the People's Republic of China
At the Opening Ceremony of the Boao Forum for Asia
Annual Conference 2022
Beijing, 21 April 2022
Your Excellencies Heads of State and Government,
Your Excellencies Heads of International Organizations,
Your Excellencies Members of the Board of Directors of the Boao Forum for Asia,
Distinguished Guests,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Dear Friends,
It gives me great pleasure to once again join friends old and new online for the Boao Forum for Asia Annual Conference 2022. I want to begin by extending, on behalf of the Chinese government and people and also in my own name, hearty welcome to all participating guests and warm congratulations on the convening of the Annual Conference.
Right now, changes of the world, of our times and of history are unfolding in ways like never before. These changes are posing challenges that must be taken seriously by humanity. We have yet to walk from the shadow of a once-in-a-century pandemic, but new traditional security risks are already emerging. The weak and faltering global economic recovery is compounded by a widening development gap. While governance deficit in areas like climate change has hardly been addressed, new issues such as digital governance are also vying for attention. Viewed in such a context, the theme of this year’s Annual Conference “The World in COVID-19 & Beyond: Working Together for Global Development and Shared Future” cannot be more relevant.
As an ancient Chinese adage goes, “One must not change his commitment or give up his pursuit even in the face of danger and risk.” A review of human history teaches us that the more difficult things get, the greater the need grows to stay confident. Problems are not to be afraid of, as it is one problem after another that have driven the progress of human society. No difficulties could ever stop the wheel of history. Faced with the many challenges, we must not lose confidence, hesitate or flinch. Instead, we must firm up confidence and press ahead against all odds.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
For us to break through the mist and embrace a bright future, the biggest strength comes from cooperation and the most effective way is through solidarity. Over the past two years and more, the international community has been working extremely hard to respond to the COVID-19 challenge and boost global recovery and development. The hardships and challenges are yet another reminder that humanity is a community with a shared future where all people rise and fall together, and that all countries need to follow the trend of the times featuring peace, development and win-win cooperation, move in the direction of building a community with a shared future for mankind, and rise to challenges and build a bright future through cooperation.
— We need to work together to defend people's lives and health.
Safety and health are the prerequisite for human development and progress. For humanity to clinch a final victory against the COVID-19 pandemic, more hard efforts are needed. It is essential that countries support each other, better coordinate response measures and improve global public health governance, so as to form strong international synergy against the pandemic. We must keep COVID vaccines a global public good and ensure their accessibility and affordability in developing countries. China has provided over 2.1 billion doses of vaccines to more than 120 countries and international organizations. Be it in delivering vaccines abroad or producing them overseas, China has honored its commitments with concrete actions. China will follow through the pledged donation of 600 million and 150 million doses of vaccines to Africa and ASEAN countries respectively, as part of our effort to close the immunization gap.
— We need to work together to promote economic recovery.
The COVID-19 pandemic has seriously eroded the gains the world has made in poverty reduction over the past decade. Uneven recovery is aggravating inequality across the world, further widening the North-South divide. We should stay committed to building an open world economy, stay on top of the dominant trend of economic globalization, increase macro policy coordination, turn to science and technology for more growth drivers, keep global industrial and supply chains stable, and prevent serious negative spillovers from policy adjustments in some countries, all in an effort to promote balanced, coordinated and inclusive global development. We should follow a people-centered approach, place development and people’s well-being high on the agenda and, when policies are implemented, measures adopted and actions taken, always give top priority to bettering people's lives. We should pay due attention to the pressing needs of developing countries and advance practical cooperation in such key areas as poverty reduction, food security, development financing and industrialization, in a bid to address uneven and inadequate development. The Global Development Initiative (GDI) I proposed last year has been echoed and supported by the United Nations and other international organizations and nearly 100 countries. China is working with the international community on the solid implementation of the GDI.
— We need to work together to maintain peace and stability in the world.
An ancient Chinese philosopher observed, “Stability brings a country prosperity while instability leads a country to poverty.” Security is the precondition for development. We humanity are living in an indivisible security community. It has been proven time and again that the Cold War mentality would only wreck the global peace framework, that hegemonism and power politics would only endanger world peace, and that bloc confrontation would only exacerbate security challenges in the 21st century. To promote security for all in the world, China would like to propose a Global Security Initiative as follows:
It is important that we stay committed to the vision of common, comprehensive, cooperative and sustainable security, and work together to maintain world peace and security; stay committed to respecting the sovereignty and territorial integrity of all countries, uphold non-interference in internal affairs, and respect the independent choices of development paths and social systems made by people in different countries; stay committed to abiding by the purposes and principles of the UN Charter, reject the Cold War mentality, oppose unilateralism, and say no to group politics and bloc confrontation; stay committed to taking the legitimate security concerns of all countries seriously, uphold the principle of indivisible security, build a balanced, effective and sustainable security architecture, and oppose the pursuit of one's own security at the cost of others’ security; stay committed to peacefully resolving differences and disputes between countries through dialogue and consultation, support all efforts conducive to the peaceful settlement of crises, reject double standards, and oppose the wanton use of unilateral sanctions and long-arm jurisdiction; stay committed to maintaining security in both traditional and non-traditional domains, and work together on regional disputes and global challenges such as terrorism, climate change, cybersecurity and biosecurity.
—
We need to work together to tackle global governance challenges.
Countries around the world are like passengers aboard the same ship who share the same destiny. For the ship to navigate the storm and sail toward a bright future, all passengers must pull together. The thought of throwing anyone overboard is simply not acceptable. In this day and age, the international community has evolved so much that it has become a sophisticated and integrated apparatus. Acts to remove any single part will cause serious problems to its operation. When that happens, both the victims and the initiators of such acts will stand to lose. In today's world, unilateralism and excessive pursuit of self-interest are doomed to fail; so are the practices of decoupling, supply disruption and maximum pressure; so are the attempts to forge “small circles” or to stoke conflict and confrontation along ideological lines. Instead, we need to embrace a global governance philosophy that emphasizes extensive consultation, joint contribution and shared benefits, promote the common values of humanity, and advocate exchanges and mutual learning between civilizations. We need to uphold true multilateralism, and firmly safeguard the international system with the UN at its core and the international order underpinned by international law. It is particularly important for major countries to lead by example in honoring equality, cooperation, good faith and the rule of law, and act in a way befitting their status.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
Having been through hot and cold wars, hardships and tribulations, people in Asia deeply cherish the value of peace and understand that development gains do not come easily. Over the past decades, Asia has enjoyed overall stability and sustained rapid growth, making possible the Asian Miracle. When Asia fares well, the whole world benefits. Therefore, we need to continue developing and strengthening Asia, demonstrate Asia's resilience, wisdom and strength, and make Asia an anchor for world peace, a powerhouse for global growth and a new pacesetter for international cooperation.
First, we should resolutely safeguard peace in Asia.
Peace and stability in our region does not fall into our lap automatically or come as charity from any country. Rather, it is the result of the joint efforts of countries in the region. The Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence and the Bandung Spirit, first advocated by Asia, are all the more relevant today. We should honor such principles as mutual respect, equality, mutual benefit and peaceful coexistence, follow a policy of good-neighborliness and friendship, and make sure that we always keep our future in our own hands.
Second, we should vigorously advance Asian cooperation.
Many Asian proverbs describe the value of solidarity and cooperation, such as “climb the hill together and go down the ravine together” and “sugarcane and lemongrass grow in dense clumps”. Win-win cooperation is a sure path to Asian development. The entry into force of the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) and the opening to traffic of the China-Laos railway have effectively boosted institutional and physical connectivity in our region. We should seize these opportunities to foster a more open Asia-wide market and make new strides in  mutually beneficial cooperation.
Third, we should jointly promote Asian unity.
Choosing dialogue and cooperation over zero-sum games, openness and inclusiveness over a closed-door and exclusive approach, and exchanges and mutual learning over a sense of superiority: this is the only choice worthy of the broad-mindedness of Asians. We should cement ASEAN centrality in the regional architecture, and uphold a regional order that balances the aspirations and accommodates the interests of all parties. Countries, no matter their size and strength, and both in and outside the region, should all add splendor rather than trouble to Asia. All should follow the path of peace and development, seek win-win cooperation, and contribute to an Asian family of unity and progress together.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
Two months ago, China presented to the world a streamlined, safe and splendid Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games, bringing warmth and hope to people across the globe. In the second half of this year, we will convene the 20th National Congress of the Communist Party of China, which will draw the blueprint for China's future development.
The fundamentals of the Chinese economy — its strong resilience, enormous potential, vast room for maneuver and long-term sustainability — remain unchanged. They will provide great dynamism for the stability and recovery of the world economy and broader market opportunities for all countries. China will fully apply its new development philosophy, accelerate the establishment of a new development paradigm, and redouble efforts for high-quality development. No matter how the world will change, China's faith in and its commitment to reform and opening-up will not waver. China will expand high-standard opening-up, fully implement the negative list for foreign investment, expand the encouraged catalogue for FDI, improve services for investment promotion, and add more cities to the comprehensive pilot program for service sector opening. China will take solid steps to develop its pilot free trade zones and the Hainan Free Trade Port, align with high-standard international economic and trade rules, and move ahead with institutional opening-up. China will implement the RCEP in full, seek the conclusion of high-standard FTAs with more countries and regions, and actively work for joining the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP) and the Digital Economy Partnership Agreement (DEPA). China will press ahead with high-quality Belt and Road cooperation to make it high-standard, sustainable and people-centered. China will unswervingly follow the path of peaceful development, and always be a builder of world peace, a contributor to global development, and a defender of the international order.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
Let me conclude with an old Chinese saying, “Keep walking and one will not be daunted by a thousand miles; make constant efforts and one will not be intimidated by a thousand tasks.” As long as we join hands and never slacken in efforts, we will build great synergy through win-win cooperation, overcome the various challenges along the way, and usher in a brighter and better future for humanity.
Thank you."
"The Fifth Session of the 13th National People’s Congress held a press conference at the Great Hall of the People on the morning of March 11, 2022. Premier Li Keqiang met with Chinese and foreign reporters and answered their questions at the invitation of Spokesperson Mr. Zhang Yesui.
In his opening remarks, Premier Li Keqiang said that he was delighted to meet friends from the media and thanked the journalists for their hard work in covering China’s NPC and CPPCC Sessions. He noted that due to COVID-19 the press conference was again held via video link this year and then opened the floor for questions.
Associated Press: I want to get your thoughts on the economic challenges China faces as it transitions from a high-growth era to a more sustainable, equitable and green growth. In the past year, the government has taken steps to reduce debt in the real estate market and regulate the digital economy. At the same time, the government has set a 5.5 percent growth target that many economists see as ambitious given the pandemic and the war in Ukraine. Does this signal that China may make short-term adjustments this year that favor economic growth over a structural change and reducing carbon emissions? How does China balance the two? And specifically on Ukraine, how do China’s important trading relationships with Europe and the US factor into the government’s response to the crisis? Are you concerned that China’s support for Russia could harm those relationships and then in turn the Chinese economy itself?
Premier Li:
You asked about China’s economic growth. Last year, China’s economic aggregate reached over 110 trillion RMB yuan. Continued growth would be growth on a high base. Experience in the global sphere shows that it will be no easy for such a big economy to keep a medium-high growth rate. You said that a 5.5 percent GDP growth target for this year is viewed an ambitious one. I recall that at last year’s press conference, a journalist asked me whether a 6 percent GDP growth target was a bit too modest. My response was that we were aware of the possibility for even faster growth of the economy because of a low base of the previous year. But still we decided to set the growth target at above 6 percent, meaning that we left possibilities open for even faster growth, say, 8 percent, and we would welcome that. Nevertheless, we set macro economic policies, including fiscal, monetary and employment policies, against this 6 percent GDP growth target. We cut the deficit-to-GDP ratio and steadily lowered the macro leverage ratio. And we reserved policy space for coping with new challenges this year.
We followed the same approach in 2020. In spite of the severe situation, we refused to flood the economy with mass stimulus or excessive money supply. As a result, despite the high inflation worldwide, China’s CPI rose less than 1 percent from last year to February this year. I think that very much has to do with our reasonable macro economic policies. Our macro economic policies are informed by China’s national conditions, and I have no intention to comment on the policies of other countries here.
Last year, under the strong leadership of the CPC Central Committee with Comrade Xi Jinping at its core, and thanks to the joint efforts of people across the country, we successfully achieved the major goals and tasks for economic and social development for the year, and laid a good foundation for development this year. This year, we face new downside pressures and challenges, with much complexity and rising uncertainty. With China’s GDP exceeding 100 trillion yuan, a 5.5 percent increase would generate the amount of output equivalent to the size of a medium economy. Ten years ago, when China’s GDP was just over 50 trillion yuan, even a 10 percent growth would only add some 6 to 7 trillion yuan of output. But this year, even with a lower growth rate, the figure would reach 9 trillion yuan in nominal GDP. To use the analogy of mountain climbing, in climbing a 1,000-meter-high mountain, covering 10 percent of the height is a distance of 100 meters. But in climbing a 3,000-meter-high mountain, 5 percent of the height will already be 150 meters. Moreover, the higher one climbs, the lower the air pressure, and the less the oxygen. So the growth may look slower now, but it actually carries more weight.
We aim to achieve about 5.5 percent growth this year to ensure the steady performance of the Chinese economy at a high level, which is in itself a show of progress. To achieve this goal is not easy, and needs the support of a series of macro policies. Take fiscal policy for example, we have lowered our deficit-to-GDP ratio to 2.8 percent this year, a decrease of more than 200 billion yuan over last year. But we will beef up government spending this year. One may naturally ask, how to pay for that? I have set it out in the Government Work Report. We will draw on the savings that we didn’t tap into over the last two years, meaning we will use the surplus profits of state-owned financial institutions and state monopoly business operations and funds transferred from the Central Budget Stabilization Fund. In total, government spending this year will rise by no less than 2 trillion yuan. Most of it will be used for tax and fee reductions, particularly tax refund, just like providing oxygen supply for mountain climbers. At the same time, we will roll out a series of supportive financial and pro-job measures too.
Our policies set for this year are not just aimed at addressing immediate needs. They also take into account long-term development needs. They will not sacrifice future interests and are therefore sustainable. Like you said, China is still faced with a series of challenges, such as climate change, income gap, and debt. We need to forcefully respond to them this year and in a medium-to-long run. The measures required are being worked on. China’s modernization is a long process. We need to address issues arising in the course of development through development.
On Ukraine, the current situation there is a focus of international attention. China is deeply concerned and grieved. We sincerely hope that the situation will ease and peace will return at an early date. China has all along followed an independent foreign policy of peace, and never targets third parties in our bilateral ties. We want to develop cooperation with all countries on the basis of mutual respect and mutual benefit, to bring greater stability to today’s world.
Reuters: Since Russia’s attack on Ukraine, there have been two million refugees, hundreds of civilian deaths, and growing worries about the prospect of nuclear escalation. Yet China has refused to condemn Russia’s conduct or call it an “invasion”. Will China refrain from condemning Russia’s conduct in Ukraine no matter what it does? Is China prepared to provide further economic and financial support for Russia as it faces sanctions? And is China concerned about sanctions blowback from other countries if it does so?
Premier Li
: As I have just said, China follows an independent foreign policy of peace. Regarding the situation in Ukraine, China believes that the sovereignty and territorial integrity of all countries should be respected, the purposes and principles of the UN Charter should be observed, and the legitimate security concerns of all countries should be taken seriously. On that basis, China makes its own assessment, and is prepared to work with the international community to play a positive role for an early return to peace.
The current situation in Ukraine is indeed disconcerting. Utmost efforts should be made to support Russia and Ukraine in carrying forward negotiations despite the difficult situation to produce a peaceful outcome. We support and encourage all efforts that are conducive to a peaceful settlement of the crisis. The high priority now is to prevent the tense situation from escalating or even getting out of control. There is consensus about this among the international community, including the parties concerned.
China calls for exercising utmost restraint and preventing a massive humanitarian crisis. China has put forward an initiative for responding to the humanitarian situation in Ukraine. China has provided Ukraine with humanitarian assistance, and will continue to do so.
Reeling from COVID-induced shocks, the world economy is already struggling. Relevant sanctions will hurt the world economic recovery and are in no one’s interest. China is ready to make its own constructive efforts in maintaining peace and stability and promoting development and prosperity in the world.
CNBC: The National Institute for Finance and Development says that fee cuts help small businesses more, and then second is the tax cuts. But are there exact figures for how the tax and fee cuts exactly helped the economy? And what are the considerations for local governments, especially as they are faced with the property market’s slowdown and their effect to revenues? And finally, for the consumer aspect, are there considerations for using consumer vouchers or other measures?
Premier Li:
Conclusions should be supported with theories and practices. Our practices in recent years show that tax and fee cuts have worked most directly. I recall that last year I had a conversation with a dozen business representatives in an eastern province. They talked about their corporate difficulties and their hope for more macro policy support from the government. I said that the central government had policies in reserve, yet we need to use them in an integrated way. I gave them three options to pick one they preferred the most. They are, massive investment, which will help them get orders; the second is handing out consumption vouchers to boost consumer spending; and the third is tax and fee reductions for enterprises to stabilize employment and boost investment and consumption. They were only quiet for a moment and almost unanimously chose the third policy option, because they believed it would work most directly in a most equitable and efficient way. Many reports I have received this year also take tax and fee cuts as the number one aspiration for the government’s macro policies. Indeed, fertilizer needs to go to the root. When the root is strong, the plant can grow well.
Some worry that tax and fee reductions have been in place for several years, and the marginal effect of this policy will fade. In other words, the policy will not work as well as before. This year, we will combine tax and fee reductions with massive tax refunds, with a total amount of 2.5 trillion yuan. It was also with such policy intensity that we pulled through those very difficult times in 2020. We have made some adjustments this time, and tax refund will be the highlight of policy for 2022. Under the current VAT tax code, there will be tax collection first, and tax refund later for enterprises. This year, we will refund in advance the existing overpaid VAT credits in a lump sum worth 1.5 trillion yuan. If this works well, we are prepared to step it up.
Priority will be given to micro and small firms in the refunding of VAT credits, because these firms cover a wide range of sectors, large in number and provide many jobs. Currently, many of them are financially strapped and are in great difficulty. We will refund all the outstanding VAT credits to micro and small firms in a lump sum by the end of June. Refunding of VAT credits to manufacturing, R&D service providers and other key industries will be fully settled within this year. Newly increased VAT credits of micro and small firms will be refunded on a monthly basis. I recall that in my discussions with CPPCC members, a member who is also a businessman told me that compared with other tax and fee cuts and investment policies, tax refunds work the fastest and the best, whereas investment projects involve a lot of procedures. VAT refunds, however, are like direct funding support for the liquidity of businesses. They are what firms need most. Getting one concrete thing done is more important than making 1000 promises. We must see to it that this policy highlight will be fully delivered.
Tax refunds and fee cuts are making subtraction, but could also be addition in essence. Refunds today could lead to increase in tax revenue in the future. For example, last year, newly registered market entities paid more taxes than the amount of tax reductions for the year. There are clear records for this. Since 2013, with the launch of VAT reform, we have cut taxes by the amount of 8.7 trillion yuan. Back then our fiscal revenue was about 11 trillion yuan. Last year, fiscal revenue exceeded 20 trillion yuan, nearly double the amount in 2013. In this process, businesses have truly benefited and improved their performance. It’s like building a deeper pool to farm more fish. The tax refunds and fee cuts have helped create more sources of tax revenue and nurture business growth.
You mentioned new difficulties local governments face in their fiscal revenues. The central government is aware of that. This year the central government’s transfer payments to local governments will rise by 18% and reach 9.8 trillion yuan, an amount rarely seen over the years. Most tax refunds will be financed by the central government, and a certain amount will also be shared by local governments. I want to emphasize that tax refunds will go straight to businesses and given the difficulty of primary-level governments, transfer payment subsidies will be channeled to prefecture- and county-level governments and below. All local governments must count every cent and make every cent count to ensure that all funding support for businesses will be fully delivered, and it would be even better if more could be done.
Phoenix TV: Over the past year, elections of the Election Committee and the seventh Legislative Council were held in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region. This year, election of the sixth-term Chief Executive will be held there. Close attention is being paid to how this election will be conducted under the new electoral system and at a time when the COVID situation in Hong Kong has yet to turn the corner? What is your comment, Mr. Premier?
Premier Li
:
The current COVID situation in Hong Kong is indeed serious. The Hong Kong SAR government has decided in accordance with the law to postpone election of the sixth-term Chief Executive to concentrate on dealing with the COVID situation. We have full understanding and support for that. The Central Government follows the COVID situation in Hong Kong every day and has deep concern for the life, health and safety of residents in Hong Kong. The Hong Kong SAR government needs to fulfil its primary responsibility in tackling the situation and the Central Government will give full support.
We are steadfast in our commitment to fully and faithfully implement the principle of One Country, Two Systems under which the people of Hong Kong administer Hong Kong with a high degree of autonomy. The change of government in the Hong Kong SAR will happen in strict accordance with relevant provisions in the Basic Law. We hope the SAR government will unite and lead people across sectors in Hong Kong to continue to grow the economy, improve people’s lives, consolidate and elevate Hong Kong’s status as an international financial, trading and shipping center, and maintain Hong Kong’s long-term prosperity and stability.
CCTV: We are seeing unstable business expectations, job cuts in certain industries and layoffs by some companies. Meanwhile, more job seekers are joining the labor force. Mr. Premier, what measures will the government take this year to achieve the goal of stable employment?
Premier Li:
Employment bears on people’s lives and the country’s development. A job helps to generate income, make life promising and create wealth. I recall that in my visit to enterprises last year, the head of a company told me that many of their employees would ask for an advance on wages in August every year, because they need the money to pay their children’s tuition fees in September.
Before this year’s Spring Festival, I visited rural areas in China’s northwest. A local farmer told me that he had one child in college with a cost of 10,000-plus yuan each year, and one other child in senior high school with a cost of more than 8,000 yuan a year. He said that he had to go to work in the city, or he wouldn’t be able to make enough money to cover these expenses by just growing grain on his small land plot. I have always been deeply touched by the hard work of our people. Staying in work is not just about earning enough to support family, but also securing a better life for the younger generation.
We will step up the implementation of our macro policies this year, and fiscal and monetary policies need to help us achieve the goal on employment. Hence, our employment-first policy is also a macro policy, whose implementation will be supported by other policies. Each year we need to create over 11 million, preferably 13 million new urban jobs. If we could achieve maximum employment, we would be able to achieve what some people say, China’s potential economic growth rate.
There is one concrete example here. In the raging times of COVID-19 back in 2020, we decided not to set a GDP growth target, but we set the target of new urban jobs at above nine million. The outcome was that we created over 11 million new urban jobs. China’s economic growth stayed in the positive territory, and reached 2.2 percent. The Chinese economy was the only one among major economies to achieve a positive growth.
This year we will see a record high increase of new job seekers into the labor force, totaling some 16 million. There will be 10.76 million students graduating from college, another record high. There needs to be work for some 300 million rural migrant workers. Jobs also need to be provided to ex-service members. And some people are waiting to get re-employed in case of business insolvency. There is a steady increase in the urban labor force, and new platforms of employment need to be created. The government will provide these new job seekers with training opportunities and other support. More importantly, we need to rely on market-oriented means to resolve employment issues. In recent years, we have pursued the initiative of mass entrepreneurship and innovation, and promoted the development of new technologies, new industries and new business models to foster new drivers of growth. We believe that there is great intelligence and potential in each individual. When their talent and potential is fully brought out, we can open great prospects for employment.
I would be remiss if I did not mention flexible employment here. Over 200 million people are now engaged in flexible employment which takes multiple forms and covers a wide range of sectors. This kind of employment will long exist in a developing country like China. Many of the people in flexible employment are express delivery service providers. They have to work braving winds and rains. Many localities have provided them with heart-warming services. The government should improve policies related to their labor rights and interests as well as social protection, just like providing safety belt to deliverymen. In this way, these new forms of employment will not only meet people’s pressing need, but also help unlock market vitality and public creativity.
EFE: We are already two years into the pandemic. And China has remained closed to the world during all this time. So my question is for how long is zero-COVID policy sustainable for China? Is there a road map to start reopening the country in the foreseeable future?
Premier Li:
The novel coronavirus is a common enemy of humankind. The virus has been with us for two years, yet is still changing. Much remains to be learned about it. Meanwhile, protection through vaccines and R&D of effective drugs need to be enhanced. The international community should embrace unity, cooperation and mutual assistance, show greater mutual understanding and accommodation, and make joint efforts to create conditions for our world’s early return to normal.
China has adopted a coordinated approach to COVID response and economic and social development. We have been actively promoting international exchanges and cooperation. We will make our response more scientific and targeted in light of the evolving COVID situation and features of the virus, to protect people’s life and health, keep up the normal running of work and life, and ensure the security of industrial and supply chains.
In my many conversations with heads of international institutions and multinationals as well as business leaders since the pandemic started, many expressed the hope for ensuring necessary business exchanges. China has opened the “fast lanes” and “green corridors” to ensure the normal running of companies and projects in key areas. We will continue to gain experience and be adaptable to new developments, to gradually restore unimpeded flow of goods and personnel in an orderly way.
Xinhua News Agency: Recent years have seen steady improvement in China’s business climate, as evidenced by a surge in market entities and easier access to government services for enterprises. However, various disturbances to business activity still exist. What more will the government do to improve the business climate and better stimulate market vitality and public creativity?
Premier Li:
Every year in the past decade, the State Council would hold a national work conference on the reform of government functions and improvement of China’s business climate. I’ve also noted that improving business climate was high on the agenda of the first meetings of many local governments in the new year. Reforming government functions could be likened to improving soils for the growth of market entities. Our policy of tax and fee reductions is like applying fertilizer and water, and the initiative of mass entrepreneurship and innovation aims to help more market entities take root and grow. When public creativity is leveraged, and the vitality of market entities unleashed, one could well anticipate vibrant economic growth. This requires the government pursue self-targeted reform to see that government power does not revolve around departmental interests. Rather, we need to advance reform to help market entities to emerge and flourish.
Shaking up vested interests could be more difficult than touching the depths of souls. Yet we must keep up the consistency of policy, which is critical for exercising governance. We have pressed ahead with market-oriented reforms and the reform of the government’s own functions over the years. Through these reforms, over 1,000 administrative approval items have been canceled or delegated to lower-level authorities. The non-administrative approval requirement was made a thing of the past. It used to take several dozen days, even up to over 100 days, to open a business. But now, it takes only four days, or just one day in some places. About 90 percent of government services can now be accessed inter-provincially, online or through cellphone apps, with no need of making physical visits. These measures have helped eliminate the thickets of vested interests and change the government’s traditional way of thinking. And we will work to bring more benefits to businesses and the people.
With an improving business climate in recent years, the number of market entities in China has reached 150 million, a net increase of 100 million over ten years ago. Most of them are privately-held, among which self-employed households now amount to 100 million. No one should underestimate these self-employed households. They support the livelihoods of many families, and meet consumer demand. Entrepreneurs in the CPPCC told me had it not been for the role of those micro and small firms and self-employed households in keeping up unimpeded flows of the economy, bigger companies, even state-owned enterprises and centrally-managed enterprises, would be hamstrung.
With bold reform measures, a sound business climate and a large number of market entities, a place often enjoys bright economic prospects. I have also repeatedly stressed that streamlining administration and enhancing oversight should go hand in hand. Streamlining administration does not mean a diminishing in government responsibilities, and the government has the duty to exercise regulation and supervision. Delegation of authority shouldn’t give rise to regulatory gaps either. We will resolutely combat the malpractices of counterfeiting and cheating on marketplace. We will enhance regulation in areas concerning people’s life and health and public interests, like food, drugs, workplace safety and the financial sector, and deal with any violation of laws and regulations. As new forms of industry and new business models keep developing, we will improve our regulatory approaches to ensure that market entities can truly compete and grow in a fair and just environment.
Bloomberg News: Fifty years ago, then US President Richard Nixon visited China and began what became known as a period of American engagement with China. Last year, the Biden administration said that period had come to an end, and China and the US were headed instead into a period of intense competition. I wonder Mr. Premier, if you would agree with that assessment? Will things such as bans on American semiconductors being sold in China or bans against Chinese companies listing shares in the US become more and more common?
Premier Li:
Fifty years ago, China and the US broke the ice and started a journey of normalizing relations between the two countries. Half a century has passed. China-US relations have all along been moving forward despite ups and downs. We hope that the two countries will act in accordance with the common understandings reached between the two Presidents in their virtual meeting at the end of last year, respect each other, live together in peace and pursue win-win cooperation. We hope the two countries will properly manage differences in a rational and constructive manner, and respect each other’s core interests and major concerns. It is preferable to have more dialogue and communication. Now that the door has been opened, it shouldn’t be shut again, still less should there be decoupling.
China and the US are both permanent members of the UN Security Council, and the world’s largest developing and developed countries respectively. Getting this relationship right serves the well-being of people of both countries. Many global challenges today require the joint efforts and cooperation of China and the US. It is fair to say that China-US cooperation is beneficial to both countries and the world.
China and the US are vastly different in social system, history, culture and stage of development. Disagreements are hardly avoidable. However, we believe cooperation should be the mainstream, because global peace and development hinges on cooperation. Even if there is market competition between the two countries in economy and trade, it should be healthy and fair. Last year, China-US trade exceeded US$750 billion, up nearly 30 percent over the previous year. This shows China-US cooperation has extensive areas and much untapped potential. If the US chooses to ease its export restrictions on China, two-way trade volume will grow even bigger, delivering more benefits to both countries and their peoples. China is ready to work with the US to expand common ground and pursue interests for the long run.
China News Service: We find that due to COVID-19 impacts in the past two years, many street-side eateries and small restaurants have no longer opened for business since closure. In addition to catering, industries like hospitality, retail and passenger transport have also been hard hit. It was proposed in the Government Work Report that efforts will be made to keep business operations stable and ensure job security. Mr. Premier, what measures will the government take this year to help these industries in distress?
Premier Li:
COVID-19 has hit the services sector the hardest, especially contact-based service industries. Many firms in these industries are micro, small and medium-sized enterprises who are already quite weak financially and running on a tight budget. The building up of difficulties is too much for them to bear. Supporting their operations is helping maintain job security, because the 100 million self-employed households are providers of close to 300 million jobs. We must provide them with timely help as they play an important leveraging role irrespective of size. Timely support is critical, because it will be too late to water a plant if the root is dried out.
For these industries in special difficulty, we have worked out over 40 supportive measures. Tax refunds alone for catering, tourism, passenger transport and the cultural sector will amount to 180 billion yuan. In addition to fiscal support, we encourage banks to provide loan extension on a seamless basis for promising businesses. We also urge temporary cuts or exemptions of rentals and electricity bills where possible for these market entities, and capable local governments should also extend support. This is also a way of property owners keeping the clients.
Consumer demand is indeed quite subdued now, especially consumption in bricks and mortar shops. We may well imagine a lively city life is very much about the hustle and bustle in marketplaces and shops. Business closure is no good news for anyone. It could even affect people’s daily lives. In this sense, policy support for the industries in distress is not just to tide these industries over difficulties; it also helps add warmth to people’s lives and bring greater vibrancy to the economy.
ET Today of Taiwan: Under the situation of further spread of the coronavirus and rising uncertainty and instability in the cross-Strait relations, how will the mainland respond to the situation across the Taiwan Strait, and uphold and promote the well-being of people on both sides of the Strait?
Premier Li:
Our major principles and policies on work related to Taiwan are clear-cut. I have laid them out in the Government Work Report. That is, we are committed to the one-China principle and the 1992 Consensus. We firmly oppose separatist activities seeking “Taiwan independence” and we will advance the peaceful growth of cross-Strait relations and the reunification of China.
At the end of the day, compatriots on both sides of the Taiwan Strait are members of one family. At no time can this fraternal bond be severed. We will continue to share with our Taiwan compatriots development opportunities, provide those on the mainland with equal treatment, and take concrete measures to benefit them and help them resolve difficulties. When people across the Strait come together and forge ahead in unity, we can surely promote the peaceful growth of cross-Strait relations, and share in the well-being of the rejuvenation of the Chinese nation.
Lianhe Zaobao:
The year 2022 is the last year of the current term of the Chinese government. Looking back at the course of governance in the past four years, what do you think are the major achievements of this government? What is the biggest challenge for it? With China’s economy under unprecedented pressure, what will be the government’s policy priorities in the last year of its term, to keep up public confidence and respond to people’s concerns?
Premier Li:
Since the formation of this government, there have been much complexity and change in the international environment, as well as entwined difficulties and challenges at home. But the biggest challenge came from the COVID-19 pandemic, which dealt a heavy blow to China’s economy. In responding to the challenge, we have not settled for the easy option or shied away from what’s difficult and the risks, and have put in our greatest efforts.
I recall that at my first press conference as Premier, held in this very same place, I laid out the basic tasks for the government as sustaining economic development, improving people’s lives and promoting social fairness. I also said we need to follow the Great Way, put people first and deliver benefits for all. In other words, the people’s wish always points the way for the government. This is what we have been doing consistently and diligently throughout the years. We have been innovative in exercising governance. We have dealt with cyclical fluctuations in economic activity by keeping major economic indicators within an appropriate range. In particular, we have implemented macro policies in a way that is directly responsive to the needs of market entities. We have pressed ahead with reforms to cut red tape and uphold justice. We have nurtured and supported the growth of market entities and new drivers of growth to boost market vitality and social creativity. We have implemented an employment-first policy and focused on ensuring people’s basic welfare in keeping with national realities. We are aware that while our people are happy with some aspects of the government’s work, there are also areas where we still fall short of their expectations.
You said this year is the last year in the current term of the Chinese government. This year is also the last year of my premiership. We are still faced with a complicated and challenging environment and there are still many difficulties and challenges at play. As to how to respond to these challenges and difficulties, I have set out our policies in the Government Work Report and also in my answers to some previous questions. I and my colleagues will make persistent efforts, conscientiously perform our duties and take solid steps to live up to our promises.
I am confident that under the strong leadership of the CPC Central Committee with Comrade Xi Jinping at its core, with the strong support of various sectors, and especially with the joint hard work of the Chinese people, China’s economy will be able to overcome difficulties. We will be able to achieve the major goals and tasks for economic and social development set for the whole year, and lay a due, solid foundation for the future development of the country.
People’s Daily:
China’s per capita income has been steadily rising in recent years. However, many people still find their lives quite hard. In particular, meeting of people’s basic living needs has been quite severely affected by COVID-19. Mr. Premier, what will the government do this year to further improve people’s lives?
Premier Li:
Indeed, in recent years, our people’s income has been growing in tandem with GDP. However, China remains a developing country. There is still a notable urban-rural gap. It will take a long time for us to achieve equal access to public services across the country. A report I received early this year listed the people’s top ten hopes for their life this year. Most of them concern basic living needs or come from farmers. Ensuring and promoting people’s lives should always be the fundamental purpose of the government’s effort in growing the economy. The government must continue to make utmost efforts and within its capacity to keep making improvements to people’s lives.
China’s fiscal revenue has reached 20 trillion yuan, but the country still faces fiscal strains. Nevertheless, we have managed to keep fiscal spending on education above 4% of GDP for ten consecutive years. This is by no means easy. Most of the government spending has gone to compulsory education and supported rural areas, because we still have 760 million registered rural population in China. We will increase government funds to compulsory education in rural and remote areas.
We have established in China the world’s largest medical insurance system covering some 1.4 billion people. However, the benefits are still quite modest at the moment. This year, the government will increase the government subsidy by 30 yuan per person. We have established a program of medical insurance for major illnesses, using basic medical insurance funds for the purchase of commercial insurance for major illnesses. In some places this program has enabled reimbursement of 300,000 to 500,000 yuan for some illnesses. And no particular numerical cap is put on the amount of reimbursement in certain regions. On average, some 70% of medical bills of rural and urban non-working residents can get reimbursed, and we will increase the benefits as our capacity grows. In particular, we need to consolidate the outcomes in ending absolute poverty and provide particular support to people who risk falling back to poverty due to illness or struggle with poverty caused by major illnesses.
Meeting basic living needs concerns people’s daily lives. Nowadays some 100 million Chinese are in cross-provincial mobility. Some are elderly people living away from hometowns with their children in cities. Some are for employment or education. They face much hassle of travel in getting certain things done. Hence, accessing government services inter-provincially has become a new constant demand among the people. One new policy we will introduce this year is to make ID cards that are in most frequent use in people’s daily lives electronic, which helps one get certain things done by a simple code-scanning on cell phones. We will also provide convenience for people who do not use smart phones, especially the elderly. In the meantime, we will ensure information security and individuals’ privacy.
To ensure the basic living needs of our people, we must take every bit of solid effort and put heart into it. We must be fully aware of the situation on the ground and always heed the people’s call. Livelihood issues are linked with the conditions people face, public opinion and even popular support. The government is duty-bound to follow the aspirations of the people, help them resolve difficulties and enable them to lead a better life.
Here I want to emphasize that a people’s government must live up to its responsibility of protecting the people’s lawful rights and interests. The recent incident involving gross violations of women’s rights and interests is deeply distressing and we feel indignant about it. Those who showed disregard for people’s rights and interests must be held to account. Perpetrators of the trafficking of women and children must be brought to justice and prosecuted to the full extent of law. Ensuring people’s safety and bettering their lives cannot be separated. Governments at all levels must take it as their basic responsibility and do their best to improve people’s lives and protect their safety.
Kyodo News: China is working toward the goal of common prosperity and said it will adopt a traffic-light regulatory approach to prevent unregulated expansion of capital. Regulation over giant internet companies has been tightened. Some foreign investors are hence concerned that China will put more restrictions on corporate behaviors because of the goal of common prosperity. How does China see this? How to alleviate the concerns of foreign investors?
Premier Li:
Common prosperity can only be attained through common efforts. As far as China’s opening-up policy is concerned, there has been no change in our position, and nor will there be a change. Moreover, there are clear-cut stipulations in China’s Foreign Investment Law. If there will be any change, the change will be conducive to China’s greater openness, and to promoting investment and trade.
Foreign investors coming to do business in China have developed themselves, and also brought us investment, sales channels and products we need. It benefits us all. Why should we restrict it? I referred to the reform of government functions in previous answers. Under this reform, we highlight the need to streamline administration and delegate power, enhance regulation and upgrade government services. We are opposed to monopoly and unfair competition and will prevent the unregulated expansion of capital. These efforts aim to motivate and support law-abiding businesses, and provide a level playing field for businesses under all types of ownership, and for both domestic and foreign-invested enterprises to compete fairly. We hope all enterprises will grow in a healthy and well-regulated way.
China is a very big country, so it is natural for individual cases to exist. But overall, China’s economy has deeply integrated into the world economy. China’s imports and exports in goods now take up more than one third of the country’s GDP. The level of overall impacts of imports on the industrial sector is over 70 percent. For the past 10 years in a row, China has remained the world’s second largest import market, and for the past five consecutive years, the largest trader in goods. On the whole, we are still transitioning from a lower-middle level on industrial chains to medium and high end. However, this also shows that Chinese industries and consumption are upgrading, and there is tremendous market potential and broad space for all types of investment.
China has signed with relevant countries the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement. The agreement has officially entered into force this year. It creates the world’s largest free trade area. We will make the most of this opportunity and continue to advance free trade. We will treat state-owned enterprises, privately-held firms and foreign invested enterprises as equals and make continued efforts to make China a popular destination for global foreign investment.
I can tell you clearly that no matter how the international environment may change, China will keep to the course of wider openness, just as courses of the Yangtze and Yellow rivers will not reverse. Over the past four decades, China has all along developed itself in the course of reform and opening up. We will actively pursue anything that is conducive to high-level opening-up of this country. We will firmly uphold the multilateral trading system, as this is necessary for our own development.
It has been 40-plus years since China started opening-up. Through opening-up, China has developed itself, and brought benefits to its people and to the world. We will not and must not close this door of opportunity.
The Press Conference was held via video link between the main venue, the Golden Hall on the third floor of the Great Hall of the People, and the Press Center for the NPC and CPPCC Sessions at Media Center Hotel. It lasted for about 130 minutes."
"IOC President Thomas Bach,
Dear Colleagues,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
It gives me great pleasure to meet so many old and new friends in Beijing as the Chinese people celebrate the Spring Festival, the start of the lunar new year. Let me begin by extending, on behalf of the Chinese government and people, and in the name of my wife and myself, a warm welcome to all the distinguished guests travelling to China and attending the Olympic Winter Games Beijing 2022. I sincerely thank all governments, peoples and international organizations that care about and support the Beijing Olympic Winter Games. In particular, I wish to express my appreciation to all the friends present here who have overcome difficulties and inconveniences caused by COVID-19 and come all the way to Beijing to cheer for the Olympic Winter Games and for China.
Last night, the Beijing Olympic Winter Games officially opened at China’s National Stadium. After 14 years, the Olympic cauldron has been lit once again in Beijing, making the city the world’s first to host both the Summer and Winter Olympic Games. Committed to organizing a green, inclusive, open and clean Games, China has made every effort to counter the impact of COVID-19, earnestly fulfilled its solemn pledge to the international community, and ensured the smooth opening of the Beijing Olympic Winter Games as scheduled.
Greater public participation in winter sport contributes to the Olympic Movement. By preparing for and organizing the Olympic Winter Games and promoting Olympic winter sport, China has popularized winter sport among the ordinary people, achieved the goal of engaging 300 million Chinese in sport on snow and ice, and made new contribution to the cause of Olympism worldwide.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
Since ancient times, the Olympic Movement has carried humanity’s aspirations for peace, solidarity and progress.
— We shall keep in mind the original aspiration of the Olympic Movement and jointly uphold world peace.
The Olympic Movement was born for the sake of peace and has thrived thanks to peace. The Olympic Truce Resolution adopted last December by consensus at the United Nations General Assembly, calling for promoting peace through sport, represents the common aspiration of the international community. We need to uphold mutual respect, equality, dialogue and consultation, strive to bridge differences and eliminate conflict, and work together for a world of durable peace.
— We shall promote the spirit of the Olympic Movement and meet the common challenges facing the international community through solidarity.
The COVID-19 pandemic is still raging, while global issues including climate change and terrorism keep emerging. The international community should stand closer together. The only way for all countries to address the various challenges effectively is to strengthen solidarity and cooperation and work together for a shared future. We need to practice true multilateralism, uphold the international system centered on the United Nations and the international order underpinned by international law, and work together to build an international family of harmony and cooperation.
— We shall act on the purpose of the Olympic Movement and continuously pursue human progress.
The Olympic Movement aims to achieve well-rounded human development. We need to follow the trend of the times, stay true to humanity’s common values of peace, development, equity, justice, democracy and freedom, promote exchanges and mutual learning between civilizations, and work together to build a community with a shared future for mankind.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
To borrow a Chinese poetic line, “Out goes the old year with the sound of firecrackers; in comes the new with the warmth of wine and spring breeze.” China has just entered the Year of the Tiger according to the lunar calendar. Tiger is a symbol of strength, courage and fearlessness. I wish all Olympic athletes excellent performance with the strength of the tiger. I am confident that with the joint efforts of us all, Beijing 2022 will surely go down in history as a streamlined, safe and splendid Olympic Games.
To conclude, I propose a toast:
To the dynamic development of the Olympic Movement;
To humanity’s noble cause of peace and development; and
To the health of all distinguished guests and your families.
Cheers!"
"Special Address by H.E. Xi Jinping
President of the People’s Republic of China
At the 2022 World Economic Forum Virtual Session
17 January 2022
Professor Klaus Schwab,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
Greetings to you all! It is my pleasure to attend this virtual session of the World Economic Forum.
In two weeks’ time, China will celebrate the advent of spring in the lunar new year, the Year of the Tiger. In Chinese culture, tiger symbolizes bravery and strength, as the Chinese people often refer to spirited dragon and dynamic tiger, or soaring dragon and leaping tiger. To meet the severe challenges facing humanity, we must “add wings to the tiger” and act with the courage and strength of the tiger to overcome all obstacles on our way forward. We must do everything necessary to clear the shadow of the pandemic and boost economic and social recovery and development, so that the sunshine of hope may light up the future of humanity.
The world today is undergoing major changes unseen in a century. These changes, not limited to a particular moment, event, country or region, represent the profound and sweeping changes of our times. As changes of the times combine with the once-in-a-century pandemic, the world finds itself in a new period of turbulence and transformation. How to beat the pandemic and how to build the post-COVID world? These are major issues of common concern to people around the world. They are also major, urgent questions we must give answers to.
As a Chinese saying goes, “The momentum of the world either flourishes or declines; the state of the world either progresses or regresses.” The world is always developing through the movement of contradictions; without contradiction, nothing would exist. The history of humanity is a history of achieving growth by meeting various tests and of developing by overcoming various crises. We need to move forward by following the logic of historical progress, and develop by riding the tide of development of our times.
Notwithstanding all vicissitudes, humanity will move on. We need to learn from comparing long history cycles, and see the change in things through the subtle and minute. We need to foster new opportunities amidst crises, open up new horizons on a shifting landscape, and pool great strength to go through difficulties and challenges.
First, we need to embrace cooperation and jointly defeat the pandemic.
Confronted by the once-in-a-century pandemic, which will affect the future of humanity, the international community has fought a tenacious battle. Facts have shown once again that amidst the raging torrents of a global crisis, countries are not riding separately in some 190 small boats, but are rather all in a giant ship on which our shared destiny hinges. Small boats may not survive a storm, but a giant ship is strong enough to brave a storm. Thanks to the concerted efforts of the international community, major progress has been made in the global fight against the pandemic. That said, the pandemic is proving a protracted one, resurging with more variants and spreading faster than before. It poses a serious threat to people’s safety and health, and exerts a profound impact on the global economy.
Strong confidence and cooperation represent the only right way to defeat the pandemic. Holding each other back or shifting blame would only cause needless delay in response and distract us from the overall objective. Countries need to strengthen international cooperation against COVID-19, carry out active cooperation on research and development of medicines, jointly build multiple lines of defense against the coronavirus, and speed up efforts to build a global community of health for all. Of particular importance is to fully leverage vaccines as a powerful weapon, ensure their equitable distribution, quicken vaccination and close the global immunization gap, so as to truly safeguard people’s lives, health and livelihoods.
China is a country that delivers on its promises. China has already sent over two billion doses of vaccines to more than 120 countries and international organizations. Still, China will provide another one billion doses to African countries, including 600 million doses as donation, and will also donate 150 million doses to ASEAN countries.
Second, we need to resolve various risks and promote steady recovery of the world economy.
The world economy is emerging from the depths, yet it still faces many constraints. The global industrial and supply chains have been disrupted. Commodity prices continue to rise. Energy supply remains tight. These risks compound one another and heighten the uncertainty about economic recovery. The global low inflation environment has notably changed, and the risks of inflation driven by multiple factors are surfacing. If major economies slam on the brakes or take a U-turn in their monetary policies, there would be serious negative spillovers. They would present challenges to global economic and financial stability, and developing countries would bear the brunt of it. In the context of ongoing COVID-19 response, we need to explore new drivers of economic growth, new modes of social life and new pathways for people-to-people exchange, in a bid to facilitate cross-border trade, keep industrial and supply chains secure and smooth, and promote steady and solid progress in global economic recovery.
Economic globalization is the trend of the times. Though countercurrents are sure to exist in a river, none could stop it from flowing to the sea. Driving forces bolster the river’s momentum, and resistance may yet enhance its flow. Despite the countercurrents and dangerous shoals along the way, economic globalization has never and will not veer off course. Countries around the world should uphold true multilateralism. We should remove barriers, not erect walls. We should open up, not close off. We should seek integration, not decoupling. This is the way to build an open world economy. We should guide reforms of the global governance system with the principle of fairness and justice, and uphold the multilateral trading system with the World Trade Organization at its center. We should make generally acceptable and effective rules for artificial intelligence and digital economy on the basis of full consultation, and create an open, just and non-discriminatory environment for scientific and technological innovation. This is the way to make economic globalization more open, inclusive, balanced and beneficial for all, and to fully unleash the vitality of the world economy.
A common understanding among us is that to turn the world economy from crisis to recovery, it is imperative to strengthen macro-policy coordination. Major economies should see the world as one community, think in a more systematic way, increase policy transparency and information sharing, and coordinate the objectives, intensity and pace of fiscal and monetary policies, so as to prevent the world economy from plummeting again. Major developed countries should adopt responsible economic policies, manage policy spillovers, and avoid severe impacts on developing countries. International economic and financial institutions should play their constructive role to pool global consensus, enhance policy synergy and prevent systemic risks.
Third, we need to bridge the development divide and revitalize global development.
The process of global development is suffering from severe disruption, entailing more outstanding problems like a widening North-South gap, divergent recovery trajectories, development fault-lines and a technological divide. The Human Development Index has declined for the first time in 30 years. The world’s poor population has increased by more than 100 million. Nearly 800 million people live in hunger. Difficulties are mounting in food security, education, employment, medicine, health and other areas important to people’s livelihoods. Some developing countries have fallen back into poverty and instability due to the pandemic. Many in developed countries are also living through a hard time.
No matter what difficulties may come our way, we must adhere to a people-centered philosophy of development, place development and livelihoods front and center in global macro-policies, realize the UN’s 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, and build greater synergy among existing mechanisms of development cooperation to promote balanced development worldwide. We need to uphold the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities, promote international cooperation on climate change in the context of development, and implement the outcomes of COP26 to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. Developed economies should take the lead in honoring their emissions reduction responsibilities, deliver on their commitment of financial and technological support, and create the necessary conditions for developing countries to address climate change and achieve sustainable development.
Last year, I put forward a Global Development Initiative at the UN General Assembly to draw international attention to the pressing challenges faced by developing countries. The Initiative is a public good open to the whole world, which aims to form synergy with the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and boost common development across the world. China stands ready to work with all partners to jointly translate the Initiative into concrete actions and make sure that no country is left behind in this process.
Fourth, we need to discard Cold War mentality and seek peaceful coexistence and win-win outcomes.
Our world today is far from being tranquil; rhetorics that stoke hatred and prejudice abound. Acts of containment, suppression or confrontation arising thereof do all harm, not the least good, to world peace and security. History has proved time and again that confrontation does not solve problems; it only invites catastrophic consequences. Protectionism and unilateralism can protect no one; they ultimately hurt the interests of others as well as one’s own. Even worse are the practices of hegemony and bullying, which run counter to the tide of history. Naturally, countries have divergences and disagreements between them. Yet a zero-sum approach that enlarges one’s own gain at the expense of others will not help. Acts of single-mindedly building “exclusive yards with high walls” or “parallel systems”, of enthusiastically putting together exclusive small circles or blocs that polarize the world, of overstretching the concept of national security to hold back economic and technological advances of other countries, and of fanning ideological antagonism and politicizing or weaponizing economic, scientific and technological issues, will gravely undercut international efforts to tackle common challenges.
The right way forward for humanity is peaceful development and win-win cooperation. Different countries and civilizations may prosper together on the basis of respect for each other, and seek common ground and win-win outcomes by setting aside differences.
We should follow the trend of history, work for a stable international order, advocate common values of humanity, and build a community with a shared future for mankind. We should choose dialogue over confrontation, inclusiveness over exclusion, and stand against all forms of unilateralism, protectionism, hegemony or power politics.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
Last year, the Communist Party of China (CPC) celebrated the 100th anniversary of its founding. Through a century of tenacious struggle, the CPC has rallied and led the Chinese people in accomplishing remarkable achievements in the advancement of the nation and betterment of people’s lives. We have realized a moderately prosperous society in all respects and won the battle against poverty, both according to plan, and found a historic solution to ending absolute poverty. Now, China is marching on a new journey of building a modern socialist country in all respects.
— China will stay committed to pursuing high-quality development.
The Chinese economy enjoys a good momentum overall. Last year, our GDP grew by around eight percent, achieving the dual target of fairly high growth and relatively low inflation. Shifts in the domestic and international economic environment have brought tremendous pressure, but the fundamentals of the Chinese economy, characterized by strong resilience, enormous potential and long-term sustainability, remain unchanged. We have every confidence in the future of China’s economy.
“The wealth of a country is measured by the abundance of its people.” Thanks to considerable economic growth, the Chinese people are living much better lives. Nonetheless, we are soberly aware that to meet people’s aspiration for an even better life, we still have much hard work to do in the long run. China has made it clear that we strive for more visible and substantive progress in the well-rounded development of individuals and the common prosperity of the entire population. We are working hard on all fronts to deliver this goal. The common prosperity we desire is not egalitarianism. To use an analogy, we will first make the pie bigger, and then divide it properly through reasonable institutional arrangements. As a rising tide lifts all boats, everyone will get a fair share from development, and development gains will benefit all our people in a more substantial and equitable way.
— China will stay committed to reform and opening-up.
For China, reform and opening-up is always a work in process. Whatever change in the international landscape, China will always hold high the banner of reform and opening-up. China will continue to let the market play a decisive role in resource allocation, and see to it that the government better plays its role. We will be steadfast in consolidating and developing the public sector, just as we are steadfast in encouraging, supporting and guiding the development of the non-public sector. We will build a unified, open, competitive and orderly market system, where all businesses enjoy equal status before the law and have equal opportunities in the marketplace. All types of capital are welcome to operate in China in compliance with laws and regulations, and play a positive role for the development of the country. China will continue to expand high-standard opening-up, steadily advance institutional opening-up that covers rules, management and standards, deliver national treatment for foreign businesses, and promote high-quality Belt and Road cooperation. With the entry into force of the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement (RCEP) on 1 January this year, China will faithfully fulfill its obligations and deepen economic and trade ties with other RCEP parties. China will also continue to work for the joining of the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP) and the Digital Economy Partnership Agreement (DEPA), with a view to further integrating into the regional and global economy and achieving mutual benefit and win-win results.
— China will stay committed to promoting ecological conservation.
As I have said many times, we should never grow the economy at the cost of resource depletion and environmental degradation, which is like draining a pond to get fish; nor should we sacrifice growth to protect the environment, which is like climbing a tree to catch fish. Guided by our philosophy that clean waters and green mountains are just as valuable as gold and silver, China has carried out holistic conservation and systematic governance of its mountains, rivers, forests, farmlands, lakes, grasslands and deserts. We do everything we can to conserve the ecological system, intensify pollution prevention and control, and improve the living and working environment for our people. China is now putting in place the world’s largest national parks system. Last year, we successfully hosted COP15 to the Convention on Biological Diversity, contributing China’s share to a clean and beautiful world.
Achieving carbon peak and carbon neutrality are the intrinsic requirements of China’s own high-quality development and a solemn pledge to the international community. China will honor its word and keep working toward its goal. We have unveiled an
Action Plan for Carbon Dioxide Peaking Before 2030
, to be followed by implementation plans for specific sectors such as energy, industry and construction. China now has the world’s biggest carbon market and biggest clean power generation system: the installed capacity of renewable energy has exceeded one billion kilowatts, and the construction of wind and photovoltaic power stations with a total installed capacity of 100 million kilowatts is well under way. Carbon peak and carbon neutrality cannot be realized overnight. Through solid and steady steps, China will pursue an orderly phase-down of traditional energy in the course of finding reliable substitution in new energy. This approach, which combines phasing out the old and bringing in the new, will ensure steady economic and social development. China will also actively engage in international cooperation on climate and jointly work for a complete transition to a greener economy and society.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
Davos is known as a heaven for winter sports. The Beijing Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games will open soon. We are confident that China will present a streamlined, safe and splendid Games to the world. The official motto for Beijing 2022 is “Together for a Shared Future”. Indeed, let us join hands with full confidence, and work together for a shared future.
Thank you."
"Dec. 31,On New Year's eve, President Xi Jinping delivered his 2022 New Year Address through China Media Group and the Internet. The following is the full text of the address:
My greetings to you all. The year 2022 is approaching. From Beijing, I extend New Year wishes to all of you!
The past year has been a year of exceptional significance. We have lived through landmark events in the history of our Party and our country. At the historical convergence of the Two Centenary Goals, we have set out on a new journey of building a modern socialist country in all respects and are making confident strides on the path toward the great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation.
From the beginning to the end of the year, the Chinese people have been hard at work in the fields, enterprises, communities, schools, hospitals, barracks and research institutes, among other places. Throughout the year, we have put in our efforts, contributed our part, and received much in return. In the passage of time, we have seen and experienced a resilient and dynamic China, a country with its amicable and respectable people, a country developing rapidly with each passing day, and a country making continual progress in all its undertakings.
On July 1, we solemnly celebrated the 100th anniversary of the founding of the Communist Party of China (CPC). Standing on the Tian'anmen Rostrum, one could only marvel at the extraordinary journey traveled by this major Party, a journey of Chinese Communists leading the Chinese people, in their hundreds of millions, in an unyielding struggle against all obstacles and challenges, and scoring spectacular, epoch-making achievements over the past century. To accomplish our great mission, we must always remain true to our original aspiration. Only through vigorous and determined endeavor can we fulfill our responsibility to history, prove worthy of our times and live up to people's expectations.
The sixth plenary session of the 19th CPC Central Committee has adopted the Party's third resolution on historical issues. The CPC's 100-year achievements provide a source of motivation and its 100-year experience a wellspring of inspiration. I have referred to Chairman Mao's conversation with Mr. Huang Yanpei at his cave-dwelling in Yan'an, and the importance of carrying out bold self-revolution so as to gain the historical initiative. To realize the great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation will be no easy task like a walk in the park; it will not happen overnight, or through sheer fanfare. We must always keep a long-term perspective, remain mindful of potential risks, maintain strategic focus and determination, and "attain to the broad and great while addressing the delicate and minute".
Our country, big as it is, also has its list of priorities. The myriad of things we attend to all boil down to matters concerning every household. Through my field trips to different places, I have seen and heard a lot of things which I find very inspiring and rewarding. Every time I visit people in their homes, I would ask if they have any more difficulties, and I would remember everything my folks have to share with me.
The concerns of the people are what I always care about, and the aspirations of the people are what I always strive for. Having worked in the countryside myself, I know precisely what poverty feels like. Thanks to the sustained efforts of the Chinese people from generation to generation, those who once lived in poverty no longer have to worry about food or clothing, or access to education, housing and medical insurance. Realization of a moderately prosperous society in all respects and elimination of extreme poverty is what the CPC has delivered to our people, and it is also a contribution to the world. To ensure that everyone leads a better life, we must never rest on what we have achieved, and there is still a long way to go.
A Yellow River well harnessed is a millennia-long aspiration of the Chinese people. Over the past few years, I have visited all nine provinces or autonomous regions on the upper, middle and lower streams of the Yellow River. From the Yellow River and the Yangtze River, two "mother rivers" of the Chinese nation, to the limpid Qinghai Lake and the mighty Yarlung Zangbo River; from the South-North Water Diversion, known as a project of the century, to the Saihanba forest, shown as a patch of green on the map; from the northward trek and homecoming of elephants in Yunnan Province, to the migration and return of Tibetan antelopes -- all these remind us that "If we do not fail Nature, Nature shall never fail us".
This year has also recorded many memorable Chinese voices, Chinese moments and Chinese stories: youthful vows of "pledging to the Party to make my country strong"; affectionate expression of "pure, true love saved for the motherland"; the Zhurong rover probing Mars, the Xihe satellite chasing the sun, and the Tianhe space station core module traveling among the stars; athletes outdoing themselves to excel on the sports field; the whole nation staying united in solid COVID-19 response; people in disaster-stricken areas standing together to rebuild their homes; members of the People's Liberation Army and Armed Police devoted to building a strong military and protecting our country. The hard work and dedication of countless unsung heroes have all added to the great momentum of China's march forward in the new era.
The prosperity and stability of Hong Kong and Macao is always close to the heart of the motherland. Only with unity and concerted efforts can we ensure sound implementation of One Country, Two Systems in the long run. The complete reunification of our motherland is an aspiration shared by people on both sides of the Taiwan Strait. I sincerely hope that all the sons and daughters of the Chinese nation will join forces to create a brighter future for our nation.
In my phone calls and virtual meetings with foreign leaders and heads of international organizations, I have heard many times plaudits for China's fight against COVID-19 and contribution to the global COVID response. To date, China has provided two billion doses of COVID-19 vaccines to more than 120 countries and international organizations. Only through unity, solidarity and cooperation can countries around the world write a new chapter in building a community with a shared future for mankind.
In just over a month, the Beijing Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games will open. Greater public involvement in winter sports also contributes to the Olympic Movement. We will spare no effort to present a great Games to the world. The world is turning its eyes to China, and China is ready.
The bell is about to ring for the New Year. As we speak, three Chinese astronauts are on duty in outer space; our fellow compatriots overseas are still working very hard; our people posted to diplomatic missions and businesses abroad as well as overseas Chinese students are bravely holding on; and our numerous dream-chasers are keeping up their good work. I salute all your great efforts, and extend to you best wishes for the New Year.
Let us all work together for a shared future. May our country enjoy prosperity and our people live in peace and harmony!"
"Keynote
Speech
by H.E. Xi Jinping
President of the People’s Republic of China
At
the
Opening Ceremony
of the Eighth Ministerial Conference of
The Forum on China-Africa Cooperation
2
9
November
2021
Your
Excellency President Macky Sall
,
Distinguished
Colleagues
,
Dear Guests and Friends,
It is such a pleasure to attend the
o
pening
c
eremony of the
E
ighth Ministerial Conference of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC). Let me first
express
sincere appreciation to President Sall and the government of Senegal for their excellent organization, and extend a warm welcome to the colleagues and guests attending the Conference.
This year marks the 65th anniversary of the start of diplomatic relations between China and African countries. Over the past 65 years, China and Africa have forged
unbreakable
fraternity in
our
struggle against imperialism and colonialism,
and embarked on a distinct path of cooperation in our journey toward development and revitalization. Together, we have
written a splendid chapter of mutual assistance amidst complex changes
,
and set a shining example
for
building a new type of international relations.
Dear Friends,
Why do China and Africa have such a
close
relationship
and
so deep a bond of friendship? The key lies in an everlasting spirit of China-Africa friendship and cooperation forged between the two sides, which features sincere friendship
a
nd
equal
ity, win-win for mutual benefit and
common development, fairness
and
justice,
and
progress with the times and openness and inclusiveness. This truly captures
the
relations of China and Africa working together in good and hard times over the past
decades
, and provides a source of strength for the continuous growth of China-Africa friendly relations.
This year marks the 50th anniversary of the restoration of China
’
s lawful seat in the United Nations. Here, let me express sincere appreciation to the many African friends who supported China back then. Let me also make it solemnly clear
that China will never forget the profound friendship of African countries and will remain guided by the principle of sincerity, real results, amity and good faith and the principle of pursuing the greater good and shared interests. China will work together with African friends to promote and carry forward the spirit of China-Africa
friendship and
cooperation from generation to generation.
Dear Friends,
At the 2018 FOCAC Beijing Summit, I proposed that we build an even stronger China-Africa community with a shared future. The proposal was unanimously endorsed by African leaders. Over the past three years and more, China and Africa have worked together to fully implement the eight major initiatives and other outcomes of the Beijing Summit, and completed a large number of priority cooperation projects. China-Africa trade and China
’
s investment in Africa have been on a steady rise. Almost all African members of FOCAC have joined the big family of Belt and Road cooperation. All these have injected strong impetus into the China-Africa comprehensive strategic and cooperative partnership.
A journey of a thousand miles begins with the first step. As we stand at the historic starting point of building a China-Africa community with a shared future in the new era, I wish to make the following four proposals:
First, fighting COVID-19 with solidarity.
We need to put people and their lives first, be guided by science, support waiving intellectual property rights on COVID-19 vaccines, and truly ensure the accessibility and affordability of vaccines in Africa to bridge the immunization gap.
Second, deepening practical cooperation.
We need to open up new prospects for China-Africa cooperation, expand trade and investment, share experience on poverty reduction, strengthen cooperation on digital economy, and promote entrepreneurship by young Africans and the development of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). At the UN General Assembly this year, I put forward the Global Development Initiative, which dovetails with the African Union
’
s Agenda 2063 and the UN
’
s 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. We welcome the active support and participation by African countries.
Third, promoting green development.
In the face of climate change, which is a major challenge to all humanity, we need to advocate green and low-carbon development, actively promote solar, wind and other sources of renewable energy, work for effective implementation of the Paris Agreement on climate change and keep strengthening our capacity for sustainable development.
Fourth, upholding equity and justice.
The world needs true multilateralism. Peace, development, equity, justice, democracy and freedom are common values of humanity and represent the
abiding aspirations
of both China and Africa. We both advocate a development path suited to our national conditions and are both committed to upholding the rights and interests of developing countries. We both oppose intervention in domestic affairs, racial discrimination and unilateral sanctions. We need to unequivocally stand for the just propositions of developing countries and translate our common aspirations and interests into joint actions.
Dear
Friends,
In the run-up to this
Conference
, our two sides
have
jointly prepared the
China-Africa Cooperation Vision 2035
. Under the first three-year plan of the Vision, China will work closely with African countries to implement
the following
nine programs
:
First, the medical and health program.
To help the
AU
achieve its goal of vaccinating 60 percent of the African population by 2022, I announce that China will provide another one billion doses of vaccines to Africa, including 600 million
doses
as donation and 400 million
doses
to be
provided through such means as
joint produc
tion
by Chinese
companies
and
relevant
Africa
n countries
. In addition, China will undertake 10 medical and health projects for African countries, and send 1,500 medical personnel and public health experts to Africa.
Second, the poverty reduction and agricultural
development
program
.
China will undertake 10 poverty reduction and agricultural projects for Africa, and send 500 agricultural experts to Africa. China will set up a number of China-Africa joint centers for modern agrotechnology exchange, demonstration and training in China, encourage Chinese institutions and companies to build in Africa demonstration villages for China-Africa cooperation on agricultural development and poverty reduction, and support the
Alliance of
Chinese
C
ompanies
in Africa for Corporate Social Responsibilities
in launching the
initiative of
“
100
Companies in
1,000
Villages”.
Third, the trade promotion
program
.
China will open “green lanes” for African agricultural exports to China,
speed up the inspection and quarantine procedures,
and
further
increase the scope of products enjoying zero-tariff treatment for the least developed countries
(LDCs)
having diplomatic relations with China, in a bid to reach 300 billion US dollars in total imports from Africa in the next three years. China will provide 10 billion US dollars of trade finance to support
African
export, and build
in China
a pioneering zone for in-depth China-Africa trade and economic cooperation and a China-Africa industrial park
for
Belt and Road
cooperation
. China will undertake 10 connectivity
projects
for Africa,
form
a
n expert group on
economic cooperation with the
s
ecretariat of the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA), and give continued support to the development of the AfCFTA.
Fourth, the investment
promotion program
.
China will encourage
its
businesses to invest no less than 10 billion US dollars in Africa in the next three years, and will establish a
platform for China-Africa
private investment promotion. China will undertake 10 industrialization and employment promotion
projects
for Africa, provide
credit facilities of
10 billion US dollars to African financial institutions, support the development of African
SMEs
on a priority basis, and establish a China-Africa cross-border RMB center. China will exempt African LDCs from debt incurred in the form of interest-free Chinese government loans due by the end of 2021. China is ready to channel
to African countries
10 billion US dollars
from
its share of the IMF’s new
allocation of Special Drawing Rights
.
Fifth, the digital innovation
program
.
China will undertake 10 digital economy
projects
for Africa, set up
centers for
China-Africa
cooperation on
satellite remote
-
sensing application, and support the development of China-Africa joint laboratories, partner institutes, and scientific and technological innovation cooperation bases. China will work with African countries to expand Silk Road e-commerce cooperation, hold online shopping festivals featuring quality African products and tourism e-commerce promotion activities, and
launch a campaign to market
100
African stores and
1,000
African products on e-commerce platforms.
Sixth, the green development program.
China will undertake 10 green development, environmental protection and climate action projects for Africa, support the development of the
“
Great Green Wall
”
, and build in Africa centers of excellence
on low-carbon development and climate change adaptation.
Seventh, the capacity building
program
.
China will
help
build or upgrade 10 schools in Africa, and invite 10,000 high-level African professionals to seminars and workshops. We will implement “Future of Africa —
a project for
China-Africa
cooperation on
vocational education”, and start an
e
mployment
“
t
hrough
t
rain” scheme for African
students in China. China will continue to work with African countries to set up
“
Luban
W
orkshops
”
, and encourage Chinese companies in Africa to
create
at least 800,000 local jobs.
Eighth, the cultural and people-to-people exchange
program
.
China
will support
making
all African countries having diplomatic ties with China approved destinations for Chinese tourist groups. We will hold African film festival
s
in China
and
Chin
ese
film festival
s
in Africa,
as well as
a China-Africa youth services forum, and a China-Africa women’s forum.
Ninth, the peace and security
program
.
China will undertake 10 peace and security projects for Africa, continue to deliver military assistance to the
AU
, support African countries’ efforts to independently maintain regional security and fight terrorism, and conduct joint exercises
and on-site training
between Chinese and African peacekeeping troops and cooperation on small arms and light weapons control.
Dear
F
riends,
Senegal’s first President Léopold Sédar Senghor once wrote, “Let us
answer
‘
present
’
at the rebirth of the
w
orld.” I am convinced that the concerted efforts of China and Africa will make this FOCAC
Conference
a full success, one that
shall
pool the mighty strength of the 2.7 billion Chinese and Africans and guide us toward a high-level China-Africa community with a shared future.
Thank you."
"Remarks by H.E. Xi Jinping
President of the People’s Republic of China
At the 28th APEC Economic Leaders’Meeting
12 November 2021
The Right Honorable Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern,
Dear Colleagues,
It is a great pleasure to meet you online. First of all, let me thank Prime Minister Ardern and the New Zealand government for their hard work in putting this meeting together. This session has chosen its theme to be “Recovering from COVID-19 to Build Prosperity for All Our People and Future Generations”, which is of great significance.
This year marks the 30th anniversary of China’s joining of APEC.It has been three decades of deepening reform and opening-up for China, and of broadening economic cooperation across the Asia-Pacific. Indeed, the Asia-Pacific region has become the most dynamic and promising economic powerhouse globally, staying at the forefront of world economic development, and making its positive contribution to global growth and to the well-being of people in the region.
Last year, building on the progress toward the Bogor Goals, we adopted the Putrajaya Vision 2040, reaffirming our original aspiration of bettering the lives of our people and envisioning an open, dynamic, resilient and peaceful Asia-Pacific community. This year, we have jointly formulated its implementation plan. We shall keep up our good work to put the Vision into action, and endeavor to build an Asia-Pacific community with a shared future featuring openness and inclusiveness, innovation-driven growth, greater connectivity, and mutually beneficial cooperation. To that end, I propose we focus our efforts on the following directions.
First, advance anti-COVID cooperation and promote economic recovery.
As we meet, the pandemic continues to pose a grave challenge and global economic recovery remains fragile and difficult. To defeat the pandemic and restore growth at an early date is a first-order priority for APEC economies at the moment. We need to follow a science-based approach in pandemic response, deepen international cooperation, promote the research, development, production and fair distribution of vaccines, ensure their accessibility and affordability in developing countries, and close the immunization gap. China has announced that it would provide a total of two billion doses of vaccines to the world in the course of this year, and has so far provided over 1.7 billion doses, including donations to more than 110 countries. At the recent 16th G20 Summit, I proposed, on China’s behalf, a Global Vaccine Cooperation Action Initiative. China has undertaken to offer three billion US dollars over the next three years to support COVID-19 response and economic and social recovery in fellow developing countries. China welcomes APEC initiatives to facilitate the movement of essential goods and people in a safe manner, and will continue to provide support to the Sub-Fund for APEC Cooperation on Combating COVID-19 and Economic Recovery with a view to helping member economies recover and growthe economy.
Second, foster an open Asia-Pacific economy.
Openness is the lifeline of Asia-Pacific cooperation. We need touphold open regionalism, follow theguidance of the APEC Vision 2040 in advancing regional economic integration, and work for the early realization of a high-standard Free Trade Area of the Asia-Pacific (FTAAP). We need to practice true multilateralism, stick to dialogue rather than confrontation, inclusiveness rather than exclusion, and integration rather than decoupling, and be resolute in safeguarding the multilateral trading regime with the World Trade Organization (WTO) at its core. China supports the implementation of the Enhanced APEC Agenda for Structural Reform and the APEC Services Competitiveness Roadmap. We look forward to the entry into force of the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) on schedule next year, and we have applied for joining the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP).
Third, promote innovation-driven development and the digital economy.
Innovation is an important driving force that propels world development. We need to commit ourselves to innovation-driven development, harness the power of the digital economy as a new growth engine, and spread the fruits of digital technologies to more people in our region. We need to implement the APEC Internet and Digital Economy Roadmap in a full and balanced manner, andfoster an open, fair, just and non-discriminatory environment for innovation and the growth of productivity. We need to further developthe digital infrastructure, speed up digital transformation, strive to bridge the digital divide, and promote development of the digital economy in an all-round way. China has put forward the initiative of Enhancing Implementation of APEC Connectivity Blueprint (2015-2025) in the Digital Era.We support stronger international cooperation on the digital economy, and have applied to join the Digital Economy Partnership Agreement (DEPA).
Fourth, pursue inclusive and sustainable development.
We need to seek the harmonious coexistence between man and nature, actively respond to climate change, promote green and low-carbon transition, and foster a community of all life on Earth. China will strive to peak carbon dioxide emissions before 2030 and achieve carbon neutrality before 2060, and supports developing countries in developing green and low-carbon energies. And China will work with partner countries to advance high-quality Belt and Road cooperation. We need to fully implement the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, and let the gains of development benefit more people across the world in a more equitable way. At this year’s UN General Assembly in September, I put forward a Global Development Initiative that aims at steering global development toward a new stage of balanced, coordinated and inclusive growth. The Initiative also holds great significance for sustainable development of the Asia-Pacific region. Economic and technical cooperation is an important area of APECcooperation. We need to step up input, make sure that developing members get real benefit from such cooperation, and keep injecting new dynamism into the development and prosperity of the Asia-Pacific.
Colleagues,
This year marks the 100th anniversary of the founding of the Communist Party of China (CPC). It is the CPC’s unchanginggoal to deliver a better life for the over 1.4 billion Chinese people and to promote peace and development for humanity. Now, China has started a new journey toward fully building a modern socialist country. China will unswervingly expand opening-up, and share its development opportunities with APEC members and the wider world.
There is a Maori proverb in New Zealand that says, “Success is not ever that of an individual, but always that of a collective.” China will workwith all APEC membersin building an Asia-Pacific community with a shared future and jointly opening a new chapter for Asia-Pacific economic cooperation.
Thank you."
"Keynote Speech by H.E. Xi Jinping
President of the People’s Republic of China
At the APEC CEO Summit
11 November 2021
Leaders of the Business Community,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Dear Friends,
I am very glad to meet you again. At present, COVID-19 is still ravaging the world, and the journey to global economic recovery remains a difficult and tortuous one. The Asia-Pacific has all along been an important engine driving the global economy. Indeed, it is among the first to regain the momentum of recovery in this crisis. At this historical juncture, it is important that we in the Asia-Pacific face up to the responsibility of the times, be in the driver’s seat, and strive hard to meet the goal of building an Asia-Pacific community with a shared future.
First, we need to make all-out efforts to fight COVID-19.
To emerge from the shadow of the pandemic and achieve steady economic recovery at an early date is the most pressing task for us in the Asia-Pacific. At this trying time, it is all the more important that we should stay confident, keep a steady hand on the tiller, and forge ahead with determination. Over the past decades, we in the Asia-Pacific have been able to make advances by overcoming crises and achieve success by meeting challenges. In the face of this once-in-a-century test that is crucial to the future of humanity, we the Asia-Pacific economies as well as various sectors should put our people and their lives first, follow the guidance of science, pull together with solidarity, extend assistance to each other, and fight to beat the pandemic.
We should support each other in fighting COVID-19 and step up cooperation in areas such as testing methods, treatment medicine and the research, development, production and mutual recognition of vaccines to truly create synergy against COVID-19. We should translate the consensus that vaccines are a global public good into concrete actions, ensure their fair and equitable distribution as well as their accessibility and affordability in developing countries, and thus work together to close the immunization gap.
Second, we need to uphold openness and cooperation.
Openness is the sure way for realizing human prosperity and progress. Over the past 30-plus years, thanks to our concerted efforts such as the adoption of the Bogor Goals and the Putrajaya Vision as well as macroeconomic policy coordination and the building of high-standard free trade areas, we in the Asia-Pacific have succeeded in sustaining fast development for a fairly long period of time. Ultimately, this has become possible because we have endeavored to create an open economic architecture and forge an Asia-Pacific partnership based on mutual trust, inclusiveness and win-win cooperation.
No matter how global developments may evolve, the Asia-Pacific economy will keep its strengths of being resilient and robust. We should all be broad-minded, follow the underlying trend of the times and proactively expand opening-up. We should advance trade and investment liberalization and facilitation, keep industrial and supply chains stable and functioning, and promote the orderly flow of resources and inputs to boost economic recovery and achieve interconnected development. We should be forward-looking, move ahead and reject practices of discrimination and exclusion of others. Attempts to draw ideological lines or form small circles on geopolitical grounds are bound to fail. The Asia-Pacific region cannot and should not relapse into the confrontation and division of the Cold War era.
Third, we need to promote green transition.
A sound eco-environment is the most basic public good that benefits all. We in the Asia-Pacific should make its post-pandemic recovery a green one and take the lead in making a science-based response to climate change. We need to follow the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities and deliver on what was agreed upon in the Paris Agreement on climate change and at the 15th Meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity. Developed economies should act on a sense of being in the same community with other economies, provide developing economies with funding and technological support and help them enhance their capacity to conduct environmental governance. Working together, all of us can embark on a path of green, low-carbon and sustainable development.
Green and low-carbon transition is a systemic project that must be pursued across the board and in a coordinated way. In the Asia-Pacific, over 100 million people still live in abject poverty. Some economies are still plagued by inadequate infrastructure development, education and health care, and they are weak in food security and energy supply. Without development, it will be impossible to pool the economic strength necessary for achieving green transition. Neglecting people’s livelihood means loss of social support for pursuing green transition. We need to gain an accurate understanding of what sustainable development means, put the people first, and strike a balance between economic growth, ensuring people’s well-being, and energy conservation and emissions reduction. This will enable us to catalyze green transition in the course of economic development and achieve greater development through green transition.
Fourth, we need to actively promote innovation.
Innovation is an important force driving human progress. I have often stressed that a country or region cannot prosper without innovation or even with slow innovation. The Asia-Pacific has distinctive intellectual resources and a long tradition of innovation. Having created many new technologies, new industries and new mechanisms, this region of ours has always been a global pacesetter of innovation-driven development. Today, a new round of technological revolution and industrial transformation is well underway, and information technology, biotechnology and manufacturing technology are developing rapidly. This has positioned us well to promote economic growth and respond to challenges such as major diseases, climate change and natural disasters.
We need to speed up scientific and technological innovation and institutional innovation, promote the commercialization of scientific and technological advances, and foster new drivers of growth so that innovation will boost both economic development and green transition. We need to scale up cooperation between member economies of the Asia-Pacific on scientific and technological innovation, and foster an open, fair, equitable and non-discriminatory environment for the development of science and technology. The business community, standing at the forefront of scientific and technological innovation, should strive to be a major force of increasing input in research and development and applying research outcomes.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
Over the years, China’s economic development has been an integral part of the Asia-Pacific cooperation process. China has attained the goal of fully building a moderately prosperous society within the set time frame, secured a historic success in eradicating absolute poverty, and embarked on a new journey toward fully building itself into a modern socialist country. This will create greater opportunities for our region.
— China will remain firm in advancing reform and opening-up so as to add impetus to economic development in the Asia-Pacific.
China is committed to building a high-standard market system and will work to make new progress in reforming important areas and key links. China will pursue high-standard institutional opening-up, continue to improve its business environment, and promote innovation-driven development of pilot free trade zones. China has ratified the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP), and it has applied for joining the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP). In the course of RCEP implementation and CPTPP negotiation, China will continue to shorten the negative list on foreign investment, promote all-round opening-up of its agricultural and manufacturing sectors, expand the opening of the service sector, and treat domestic and foreign businesses as equals in accordance with law.
As a Chinese saying goes, “To get things right at the end, one needs to lay a sound foundation; to achieve a good result, one needs to be prudent from the start.” Recently, the competent Chinese government departments are improving and better enforcing anti-monopoly laws and regulations, and strengthening regulation over some sectors. This is called for to promote the sound development of the market economy in China. As a matter of fact, it is also a common practice in other countries. We will unswervingly consolidate and develop the public sector, and unswervingly encourage, support and guide the development of the non-public sector. We treat all types of market entities on an equal basis, and we are working to develop a unified, open, competitive and orderly market system. This will enable us to cement the foundation for long-term development of the Chinese economy and better support businesses from both the Asia-Pacific and the wider world in investing and operating in China.
— China will advance green transition on all fronts and make its due contribution to boosting ecological conservation in the Asia-Pacific and beyond.
For many years, I used to live in a small village on the Loess Plateau, at a time when its eco-environment was undermined and its people were poverty-stricken. It had come to me that harms done to nature will eventually harm ourselves. China will actively promote ecological conservation. To us, lucid waters and lush mountains are invaluable assets. We will intensify comprehensive efforts to stem soil erosion and win the critical battle of pollution prevention and control. China will fully implement its national strategy on climate change response. Since I announced the goals of carbon peak and carbon neutrality last year, China has formulated an
Action Plan for Carbon Dioxide Peaking Before 2030
, and moved faster to put in place a “1+N” policy framework. Here, “1” stands for the guiding principle and top-level design for carbon peak and carbon neutrality, and “N” refers to implementation plans for key areas and industries, including the action for green energy transition, the action for peaking carbon dioxide emissions in the industrial sector, the action for promoting green and low-carbon transportation, and the action for promoting circular economy for decarbonization purposes. China will strike a balance between low-carbon transition and ensuring the living needs of its people, and between development and carbon reduction, and will achieve carbon peak and carbon neutrality within the time frame we set.
China’s carbon reduction action is a profound economic and social transformation. However formidable the task may be, we will work tirelessly to make our contribution to promoting global green transition. Our carbon reduction action will also require massive investment, thus creating huge market opportunities and room for cooperation. The business communities across the Asia-Pacific are warmly welcome to join us in this endeavor. Together, we can usher in a future of green development.
— China will stay committed to promoting win-win cooperation and contribute to the economic development of the Asia-Pacific.
China has all along been actively involved in regional cooperation in the Asia-Pacific, and it has endeavored to advance openness and cooperation in the region. China will continue to practice true multilateralism, uphold the WTO-centered multilateral trading system, take an active part in global economic governance and promote the building of an open world economy. China will steadfastly advance high-quality Belt and Road cooperation, facilitate connectivity in the Asia-Pacific, ensure stable and smooth functioning of industrial and supply chains in the region, and deepen cooperation with all stakeholders in such areas as e-commerce and digital logistics. With these efforts, we can inject impetus into economic recovery and sustainable development in our region.
At this year’s United Nations General Assembly, I proposed a Global Development Initiative, calling for meeting the development needs of developing countries, ensuring their development opportunities and thus achieving a more robust, greener and more balanced global development. China will continue playing its role as a responsible major country. It will promote closer cooperation in areas such as global poverty reduction, food security and development financing, and earnestly implement the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, thus building a global community of development with a shared future.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
Over the years, as business leaders, you have witnessed and participated in China’s development. I hope that you will continue to take a keen interest in and support China’s development, and achieve win-win in our cooperation. Working together, let us all be promoters of and contributors to unity and prosperity of the Asia-Pacific family.
Thank you all."
"Keynote Speech by H.E. Xi Jinping
President of the People’s Republic of China
At the Opening Ceremony of
The Fourth China International Import Expo
4 November 2021
Your Excellencies Heads of State and Government,
Your Excellencies Heads of International Organizations,
Your Excellencies Heads of Delegations,
Distinguished Guests,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Dear Friends,
Good evening! As the fourth China International Import Expo (CIIE) opens today, it gives me great pleasure to meet you online in this cloud meeting. At the outset, I would like to extend, on behalf of the government and people of China and also in my own name, a hearty welcome to our distinguished guests and warm greetings and best wishes to our friends old and new.
China is a firm believer in honoring its words with actions. The measures I announced at the third CIIE for further opening up have mostly been implemented. The negative list for cross-border trade in services at the Hainan Free Trade Port has been introduced; reform and innovation for pilot free trade zones are making steady progress; foreign investment access continues to expand; business environment continues to improve; negotiations on the China-EU Comprehensive Agreement on Investment have been concluded; and China is among the first to have completed domestic ratification of the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP). China has overcome the impact of COVID-19 to achieve innovative growth in foreign trade. As the only major economy to register positive growth of trade in goods last year, China has made important contributions to keeping global industrial and supply chains stable and boosting world economic recovery.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
As we speak, the world is experiencing the combined impacts of major changes and a pandemic both unseen in a century. Unilateralism and protectionism are on the rise, and economic globalization is facing headwinds. Studies show a steady decline of the World Openness Index over the past decade and a weakening of global consensus on opening up, which are causes for great concern. For a boat to sail upstream, it has to forge ahead or be driven backward. We must stay on top of the prevailing trend of economic globalization, and support countries around the world in opening up wider while rejecting unilateralism and protectionism. This is significantly important if we are to take humanity to a better future.
Opening up is the hallmark of contemporary China. This year marks the 20th anniversary of China’s accession to the World Trade Organization (WTO). Over the last two decades, China has fully delivered on its accession commitments. Its overall tariff rate has been cut from 15.3 percent to 7.4 percent, lower than the 9.8 percent accession commitment. The central government has reviewed and revised over 2,300 pieces of laws and regulations, and local governments over 190,000 pieces, which all helped to unleash market and social vitality. Since the start of COVID-19, China has provided to the international community some 350 billion masks, over four billion protective suits, over six billion testing kits, and over 1.6 billion doses of vaccines. China has actively promoted international cooperation against the pandemic, and supported waiving intellectual property rights on vaccines for developing countries. These are the concrete actions China has taken to honor commitments and fulfill responsibilities.
Over the last 20 years, China’s economic size has grown from the 6th to the 2nd largest in the world, trade in goods from the 6th to the 1st, and trade in services from the 11th to the 2nd. China has led developing countries in utilized foreign investment, and its outbound direct investment (ODI) has risen from the 26th to the 1st. The past 20 years have witnessed a China deepening reform and pursuing all-round opening up, a China seizing opportunities and rising to challenges, and a China stepping up to its responsibilities and benefiting the whole world.
Since joining the WTO, China has kept opening wider to the world, thus generating a new wave of domestic development while injecting fresh impetus into the world economy.
China’s development and progress since its WTO accession 20 years ago is the result of much hard work and great tenacity of the Chinese people under the strong leadership of the Communist Party of China (CPC). It is also the result of China’s proactive steps to strengthen international cooperation and pursue win-win cooperation.
On this occasion, I wish to express my heartfelt thanks to all Chinese and foreign friends from different social sectors for taking part in and witnessing this historic process and for supporting China’s opening up and development endeavor.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
Ancient Chinese observed, “One can tell the inside of a thing by observing its outside and see the future development by reviewing the past.” For any country or nation to thrive, it must follow the logic of history and develop in line with the trend of the times. As for China, we will not change our resolve to open wider at a high standard; we will not change our determination to share development opportunities with the rest of the world; and we will not change our commitment to an economic globalization that is more open, inclusive, balanced and beneficial for all.
First, China will firmly safeguard true multilateralism.
The multilateral trading regime with the WTO at its core is the cornerstone of international trade. Right now, the multilateral trading regime faces challenges. China supports the WTO reform in moving in the right direction. We support the inclusive development of the multilateral trading regime, as well as the legitimate rights and interests of the developing members. China will take an active and open attitude in negotiations on issues such as the digital economy, trade and the environment, industrial subsidies and state-owned enterprises, uphold the position of the multilateral trading regime as the main channel for international rules-setting, and safeguard the stability of global industrial and supply chains.
Second, China will firmly share market opportunities with the rest of the world.
China has a population of over 1.4 billion and a middle-income group of more than 400 million people. Our annual import in goods and services is valued at around US$2.5 trillion. All this offers an enormous market. Going forward, China will lay more emphasis on expanding import, and pursue balanced development of trade. China will open more demonstration zones for creative promotion of import trade, optimize the catalogue of retail imports via cross-border e-commerce, encourage the on-site processing of imported goods from trading between border residents, and increase imports from neighboring countries. China will better integrate its domestic and foreign trade, speed up the development of international consumption center cities, promote Silk Road e-commerce, build modern logistics systems, and shore up the capacity of cross-border logistics.
Third, China will firmly promote high-standard opening up.
China will further shorten the negative list for foreign investment, and expand the opening of telecommunication, healthcare and other services in an orderly fashion. China will revise and enlarge the encouraged industry catalogue to guide more foreign investment toward sectors such as advanced manufacturing, modern services, high and new technology, energy conservation and environmental protection, and toward the central, western and northeastern regions. China will conduct stress tests for high-standard opening up in pilot free trade zones and the Hainan Free Trade Port, and will release a negative list for cross-border trade in services in the pilot free trade zones. China will deeply engage in international cooperation on green and low-carbon development and the digital economy, and work actively for joining the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP) and the Digital Economy Partnership Agreement (DEPA).
Fourth, China will firmly uphold the common interests of the world.
China will take an active part in cooperation within the United Nations, the WTO, the G20, APEC, Shanghai Cooperation Organization and other institutions, and promote more discussions on such issues as trade and investment, the digital economy, and green and low-carbon development. China will support the fair distribution of and unimpeded trade in vaccines and other key medical supplies across the world. China will promote high-quality Belt and Road cooperation so that more countries and peoples will benefit from its development opportunities and real outcomes. China will actively join in global efforts to tackle climate change and safeguard food and energy security, and provide more assistance to fellow developing countries within the framework of South-South cooperation.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
As a Chinese proverb reads, “The going may be tough when one walks alone, but it gets easier when people walk together.” As the pandemic continues to wreak havoc and the global economy faces a bumpy recovery, it is all the more imperative that people around the world pull together to tide over this difficult time. China stands ready to work with all countries to build an open world economy so that the spring breeze of openness will bring warmth to all parts of the world.
Thank you."
"Remarks by H.E. Xi Jinping
President of the People's Republic of China
At Session I of the 16th G20 Leaders' Summit
30 October 2021
Your Excellency Prime Minister Mario Draghi,
Dear Colleagues,
I wish to begin by sincerely thanking Italy, the G20 President, for the great efforts it has made in hosting this Summit.
The city of Rome, with its time-honored history, has left a splendid chapter in the history of human civilization. Today, we are meeting here against the backdrop of a protracted COVID-19 pandemic, fragile economic recovery, acute challenges of climate change, and frequent flare-ups of regional hotspot issues. With People, Planet, Prosperity as its theme, the Rome Summit gives expression to the resolve of the international community to act in solidarity to defeat the pandemic and revive the world economy, and demonstrates the mission of the G20 to lead the transformation of global economic governance.
Faced with changes and a pandemic both unseen in a century, the G20, the premier forum for international economic cooperation, needs to shoulder its due responsibilities, bear in mind the future of humanity and the welfare of the people, uphold openness, inclusiveness and win-win cooperation, practice true multilateralism, and promote the building of a community with a shared future for mankind. To be specific, I would like to suggest that we work in the following five areas.
First, work in solidarity to combat COVID-19. With the coronavirus ravaging the whole world, none of us can stay safe on our own. Solidarity and cooperation are the most powerful weapon. The international community must work in concert to confront and defeat the pandemic with a science-based approach. Stigmatization of the virus and politicization of origins tracing run counter to the spirit of solidarity against the pandemic. We need to step up cooperation on prevention, control, diagnosis and treatment, and enhance preparedness for major public health emergencies. The G20 includes the world's major economies and should therefore play a leading role in building consensus, mobilizing resources, and promoting cooperation.
At the early stage of the pandemic, I called for COVID-19 vaccines to be made a global public good. On that basis, I would like to propose here a Global Vaccine Cooperation Action Initiative: First, we need to strengthen vaccine R&D cooperation and support vaccine companies in conducting joint R&D and production with developing countries. Second, we need to uphold equity and justice, and provide more vaccines to developing countries to meet the global vaccination target for 2022 as set by the World Health Organization (WHO). Third, we need to support the World Trade Organization (WTO) in making an early decision on waiving intellectual property rights on COVID-19 vaccines, and encourage vaccine companies to transfer technology to developing countries. Fourth, we need to scale up cross-border trade cooperation to ensure smooth trade in vaccines and related raw and auxiliary materials. Fifth, we need to treat different vaccines equally and advance mutual recognition of vaccines in accordance with the WHO's Emergency Use Listing. Sixth, we need to provide financial support for global vaccine cooperation, especially for developing countries to access vaccines.
To date, China has provided over 1.6 billion doses of vaccines to more than 100 countries and international organizations, and will provide over two billion doses to the world in the course of this year. China is conducting joint vaccine production with 16 countries, with an initial capacity of 700 million doses per year. The International Forum on COVID-19 Vaccine Cooperation that I proposed last May at the Global Health Summit was held successfully in August. The participating countries reached intended deals of over 1.5 billion doses for this year. China, together with 30 other countries, has also launched an Initiative for Belt and Road Partnership on COVID-19 Vaccines Cooperation, calling on the international community to promote fair distribution of vaccines around the world. China is ready to work with all parties to enhance vaccine accessibility and affordability in developing countries and make positive contribution to building a global line of defense through vaccination.
Second, strengthen coordination to promote recovery. COVID-19 has made a complex and far-reaching impact on the world economy. It is imperative that we apply the right prescriptions to address both symptoms and root causes of the problems we face. We should step up macroeconomic policy coordination and ensure the continuity, consistency and sustainability of our policies. Major economies should adopt responsible macroeconomic policies, prevent measures taken for themselves from entailing rising inflation, exchange rate fluctuations or mounting debts, avoid negative spillovers on developing countries, and ensure sound operation of the international economic and financial system.
At the same time, we should take a long-term perspective, improve the global economic governance system and rules, and make up for the relevant governance deficit. We should continue to push for the scheduled conclusion of the 16th General Quota Review of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) to buttress the global financial safety net. China supports the early launch of negotiations on the 20th replenishment process of the International Development Association, and maintains that the relevant Voting Rights Review should faithfully reflect the changes in the international economic landscape and raise the voice of developing countries. China welcomes the IMF's decision on the new allocation of Special Drawing Rights totaling 650 billion US dollars, and stands ready to lend the new allocation to low-income countries that are seriously affected by COVID-19.
We should safeguard the multilateral trading system with the WTO at its core and build an open world economy. The G20 should continue to provide political guidance on the reform of the WTO, uphold its core values and basic principles, and protect developing countries' rights, interests and development space. It is imperative to restore, as quickly as possible, the normal operation of the dispute settlement mechanism, and work for positive results at the 12th WTO Ministerial Conference. We should keep the industrial and supply chains safe and stable, and ensure the smooth functioning of the world economy. China proposes to hold an international forum on resilient and stable industrial and supply chains, and welcomes the active participation of G20 members and relevant international organizations.
Infrastructure development plays an important role in propelling economic growth. China has made unremitting efforts in this regard through Belt and Road cooperation and other initiatives. China is prepared to work with all sides to uphold the principle of extensive consultation, joint contribution and shared benefits, stay committed to the vision of open, green and clean cooperation, and pursue the goal of high-standard, people-centered and sustainable development, so as to deliver more fruitful outcomes from high-quality Belt and Road cooperation.
Third, embrace inclusiveness to achieve common development. The pandemic has brought multiple crises to the world, developing countries in particular. The number of people living in hunger has reached around 800 million. Implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development is facing unprecedented challenges. In this context, we must take a people-centered approach and make global development more equitable, effective and inclusive, so that no country will be left behind.
The G20 should prioritize development in macro policy coordination, ensure sound implementation of the Action Plan on the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, move forward with the Initiative on Supporting Industrialization in Africa and Least Developed Countries, and promote synergy among the existing mechanisms for development cooperation. Advanced economies should fulfill their pledges on official development assistance (ODA) and provide more resources for developing countries.
Not long ago, I proposed a Global Development Initiative at the United Nations and called on the international community to strengthen cooperation in areas of poverty alleviation, food security, COVID-19 response and vaccines, development financing, climate change and green development, industrialization, digital economy and connectivity, so as to accelerate implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and achieve more robust, greener and more balanced global development. This initiative is highly compatible with the G20's goal and priority of promoting global development. We welcome the active participation of more countries in the initiative.
Fourth, pursue innovation to tap growth potential. Innovation is a decisive factor in promoting economic and social development and in addressing the common challenges to humanity. The G20 should join forces to unleash the potential for innovation-driven growth and draw up rules based on extensive participation and broad-based consensus to foster an enabling environment for innovation-driven development. Forming exclusive blocs or even drawing ideological lines will only cause division and create more obstacles, which will do no good but only harm to scientific and technological innovation.
Digital economy is an important frontier of scientific and technological innovation. The G20 should shoulder responsibilities in the digital era, quicken the development of new types of digital infrastructure, promote deeper integration of digital technologies with the real economy, and help developing countries eliminate the digital divide. China has put forth the Global Initiative on Data Security. We may discuss and develop international rules for digital governance that reflect the will and respect the interests of all sides, and actively foster an open, fair, just and non-discriminatory environment for digital development. China attaches great importance to international cooperation on digital economy, and has decided to apply to join the Digital Economy Partnership Agreement. China stands ready to work with all parties for the healthy and orderly development of digital economy.
Fifth, promote harmonious co-existence to achieve green and sustainable development. The G20 needs to uphold the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities, push for the full implementation of the Paris Agreement on climate change, and support a successful COP26 to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and COP15 to the Convention on Biological Diversity. Developed countries need to lead by example on emissions reduction, fully accommodate the special difficulties and concerns of developing countries, deliver on their commitments of climate financing, and provide technology, capacity-building and other support for developing countries. This is critically important for the success of the upcoming COP26.
China has all along undertaken due international responsibilities commensurate with its national conditions. We have actively advanced the green transition of our economy, and raised the ambition of our climate actions on our own initiative. In the past ten years, China phased out 120 million kilowatts of installed coal-fired power generation capacity. The construction of the first batch of wind and photovoltaic power stations with a total installed capacity of about 100 million kilowatts was launched in an orderly fashion. China will strive to peak its CO2 emissions before 2030 and achieve carbon neutrality before 2060. We will honor our words with actions and work with all countries to pursue a path of green, low-carbon and sustainable development.
Colleagues,
As an ancient Chinese philosopher observed, "He who has credibility connects the world." In other words, credibility is the foundation for interactions with the world. China will stay committed to the fundamental state policy of opening-up to unleash the potential of its huge market and enormous domestic demand. We will promote institutional opening-up that covers rules, regulations, management and standards, and step up protection of intellectual property rights. We will continue to foster a business environment that is based on market principles, governed by law and up to international standards, and ensure a fair and equitable market order for both domestic and foreign companies. I am convinced that China's development will bring even greater and new opportunities to the world and inject still more new impetus to the world economy.
As the saying goes, Rome wasn't built in a day. To build a community with a shared future for mankind requires persisting efforts of all countries. Although the journey ahead may be long and arduous, with sustained actions, we will eventually reach our destination and embrace a brighter future. Let us work together to dispel the dark clouds of the pandemic at an early date and jointly build an ever better future for all of us!
Thank you."
"25 October 2021
Your Excellency Secretary-General António Guterres,
Your Excellencies Diplomatic Envoys and Representatives of International Organizations,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
Comrades,
Fifty years ago today, the 26th Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations adopted, with an overwhelming majority, Resolution 2758, and the decision was made to restore all rights of the People's Republic of China in the United Nations and to recognize the representatives of the Government of the People's Republic of China as the only legitimate representatives of China to the United Nations. It was a victory for the Chinese people and a victory for people of the world.
Today, on this special date, we are here to review the past history and look to the future, and that makes our gathering all the more significant.
The restoration of New China's lawful seat in the United Nations was a momentous event for the world and the United Nations. It came as the result of joint efforts of all peace-loving countries that stood up for justice in the world. It marked the return of the Chinese people, or one-fourth of the world's population, back to the UN stage. The importance was significant and far-reaching for both China and the wider world.
On this occasion, I wish to express, on behalf of the Chinese government and the Chinese people, heartfelt gratitude to all countries that co-sponsored and supported UN General Assembly Resolution 2758, and to pay high tribute to all countries and people that stand on the side of justice.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
Comrades,
The past five decades since New China restored its lawful seat in the United Nations have witnessed China's peaceful development and its commitment and dedication to the welfare of all humanity.
- For these 50 years, the Chinese people have demonstrated an untiring spirit and kept to the right direction of China's development amidst changing circumstances, thus writing an epic chapter in the development of China and humanity.
Building on achievements in national construction and development since the founding of New China, the Chinese people have started the new historical era of reform and opening-up, and successfully initiated and developed socialism with Chinese characteristics. We have continued to unleash and develop productivity and raise living standards, and achieved a historic breakthrough of leaping from a country with relatively low productivity to the second largest economy in the world. Through much hard work, the Chinese people have attained the goal of fully building a moderately prosperous society on the vast land of China, and won the battle against poverty, thus securing a historic success in eradicating absolute poverty. We have now embarked on a new journey toward fully building a modern socialist country and opened up bright prospects for the great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation.
- For these 50 years, the Chinese people have stood in solidarity and cooperation with people around the world and upheld international equity and justice, contributing significantly to world peace and development.
The Chinese people are peace-loving people and know well the value of peace and stability. We have unswervingly followed an independent foreign policy of peace, stood firm for fairness and justice, and resolutely opposed hegemony and power politics. The Chinese people are a strong supporter of other developing countries in their just struggle to safeguard sovereignty, security and development interests. The Chinese people are committed to achieving common development. From the Tazara Railway to the Belt and Road Initiative, we have done what we could to help other developing countries, and have offered the world new opportunities through our own development. During the trying times of the COVID-19 pandemic, China has been active in sharing COVID response experience with the world, and has sent large quantities of supplies, vaccines and medicines to other countries, and deeply engaged in science-based cooperation on COVID-19 origins tracing, all in a sincere and proactive effort to contribute to humanity's final victory over the pandemic.
- For these 50 years, the Chinese people have upheld the authority and sanctity of the United Nations and practiced multilateralism, and China's cooperation with the United Nations has deepened steadily.
China has faithfully fulfilled its responsibility and mission as a permanent member of the UN Security Council, stayed true to the purposes and principles of the UN Charter, and upheld the central role of the United Nations in international affairs. China has stood actively for political settlement of disputes through peaceful means. It has sent over 50,000 peacekeepers to UN peacekeeping operations, and is now the second largest financial contributor to both the United Nations and UN peacekeeping operations. China has been among the first of countries to meet the UN Millennium Development Goals. It has taken the lead in implementing the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, accounting for over 70 percent of global poverty reduction. China has acted by the spirit of the UN Charter and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and earnestly applied the universality of human rights in the Chinese context. It has blazed a path of human rights development that is consistent with the trend of the times and carries distinct Chinese features, thus making major contribution to human rights progress in China and the international human rights cause.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
Comrades,
The trend of the world, vast and mighty, prospers those who follow it and perishes those who go against it. Over the last 50 years, for all the vicissitudes in the international landscape, the world has remained stable as a whole, thanks to the concerted efforts of people of all countries. The world economy has grown rapidly, and innovation in science and technology has kept breaking new ground. A large number of developing countries have grown stronger, over a billion people have walked out of poverty, and a population of several billion are moving toward modernization.
In the world today, changes unseen in a century are accelerating, and the force for peace, development and progress has continued to grow. It falls upon us to follow the prevailing trend of history, and choose cooperation over confrontation, openness over seclusion, and mutual benefit over zero-sum games. We shall be firm in opposing all forms of hegemony and power politics, as well as all forms of unilateralism and protectionism.
- We should vigorously advocate peace, development, equity, justice, democracy and freedom, which are the common values of humanity, and work together to provide the right guiding philosophy for building a better world.
Peace and development are our common cause, equity and justice our common aspiration, and democracy and freedom our common pursuit. The world we live in is diverse and colorful. Diversity makes human civilization what it is, and provides a constant source of vitality and driving force for world development. As a Chinese saying goes, "Without achieving the good of one hundred various schools, the uniqueness of one individual cannot be achieved." No civilization in the world is superior to others; every civilization is special and unique to its own region. Civilizations can achieve harmony only through communication, and can make progress only through harmonization. Whether a country's path of development works is judged, first and foremost, by whether it fits the country's conditions; whether it follows the development trend of the times; whether it brings about economic growth, social advancement, better livelihoods and social stability; whether it has the people's endorsement and support; and whether it contributes to the progressive cause of humanity.
- We should jointly promote the building of a community with a shared future for mankind, and work together to build an open, inclusive, clean and beautiful world that enjoys lasting peace, universal security and common prosperity.
The human race is an integral community and Earth is our common homeland. No person or country can thrive in isolation. Humanity should overcome difficulties in solidarity and pursue common development in harmony. We should keep moving toward a community with a shared future for mankind, and jointly create a better future. To build a community with a shared future for mankind is not to replace one system or civilization with another. Instead, it is about countries with different social systems, ideologies, histories, cultures and levels of development coming together for shared interests, shared rights and shared responsibilities in global affairs, and creating the greatest synergy for building a better world.
- We should stay committed to mutual benefit and win-win results, and work together to promote economic and social development for the greater benefit of our people.
As ancient Chinese observed, "The essence of governance is livelihood, and the essence of livelihood is adequacy." Development and happy lives are the common aspirations of people in all countries. Development is meaningful only when it is for the people's interest, and can sustain only when it is motivated by the people. Countries should put their people front and center, and strive to realize development with a higher level of quality, efficiency, equity, sustainability and security. It is important to resolve the problem of unbalanced and inadequate development, and make development more balanced, coordinated and inclusive. It is also important to strengthen the people's capacity for development, foster a development environment where everyone takes part and has a share, and create a development paradigm where its outcome benefits every person in every country more directly and fairly. Not long ago, at the 76th Session of the UN General Assembly, I proposed a Global Development Initiative, with the hope that countries will work together to overcome impacts of COVID-19 on global development, accelerate implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, and build a global community of development with a shared future.
- We should step up cooperation, and work together to address the various challenges and global issues facing humanity.
The international community is confronted by regional disputes as well as global issues such as terrorism, climate change, cybersecurity and biosecurity. Only with more inclusive global governance, more effective multilateral mechanisms and more active regional cooperation, can these issues be addressed effectively. Climate change is Nature's alarm bell to humanity. Countries need to take concrete actions to protect Mother Nature. We need to encourage green recovery, green production and green consumption, promote a civilized and healthy way of life, foster harmony between man and Nature, and let a sound ecology and environment be the inexhaustible source of sustainable development.
- We should resolutely uphold the authority and standing of the United Nations, and work together to practice true multilateralism.
Building a community with a shared future for mankind requires a strong United Nations and reform and development of the global governance system. Countries should uphold the international system with the United Nations at its core, the international order underpinned by international law and the basic norms of international relations based on the purposes and principles of the UN Charter. International rules can only be made by the 193 UN Member States together, and not decided by individual countries or blocs of countries. International rules should be observed by the 193 UN Member States, and there is no and should be no exception. Countries should respect the United Nations, take good care of the UN family, refrain from exploiting the Organization, still less abandoning it at one's will, and make sure that the United Nations plays an even more positive role in advancing humanity's noble cause of peace and development. China will be happy to work with all countries under the principle of extensive consultation, joint contribution and shared benefits to explore new ideas and new models of cooperation and keep enriching the practice of multilateralism under new circumstances.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
Comrades,
A review of the past can light the way forward. Standing at a new historical starting point, China will stay committed to the path of peaceful development and always be a builder of world peace. China will stay committed to the path of reform and opening-up and always be a contributor to global development. China will stay committed to the path of multilateralism and always be a defender of the international order.
As an ancient Chinese poem reads, "Green hills immerse in the same cloud and rain. The same moon lights up towns however far away." Let us join hands, stand on the right side of history and the side of human progress, and work tirelessly for the lasting and peaceful development of the world and for building a community with a shared future for mankind!
Thank you."
"Keynote Speech by H.E. Xi Jinping
President of the People's Republic of China
At the Opening Ceremony of
The Second United Nations Global Sustainable Transport Conference
14 October 2021
Your Excellency Secretary-General António Guterres,
Dear Colleagues,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
It gives me great pleasure to attend the second United Nations Global Sustainable Transport Conference and discuss what is important for global transport and development. Let me begin by extending, on behalf of the Chinese government and the Chinese people and also in my own name, warm congratulations on the convening of the Conference and a hearty welcome to our distinguished guests.
Transport is the artery of the economy and a bond between civilizations. A review of history shows that transport, in the forms of camel caravans and sailing boats on the ancient Silk Road, wave-breaking vessels in the Age of Exploration, and criss-cross transport networks in this modern age, has facilitated economic integration and people-to-people exchanges and turned the world into a close-knit global village.
As we speak, major changes unseen in a century, compounded by a once-in-a-century pandemic, are posing serious challenges to the global efforts of growing the economy and bettering people's lives. It is imperative that we follow the prevailing trend of world development, advance global transport cooperation, and write a new chapter featuring connectivity of infrastructure, unfettered flows of trade and investment, and interactions between civilizations.
First, we need to uphold open interplay and enhance connectivity.
A big river is full when its tributaries are filled with water; and tributaries must be dry when there is no water in the big river. Only with openness, inclusiveness and connectivity can countries reinforce each other's efforts and achieve win-win results. It is important that we pursue an open world economy, reject discriminatory or exclusive rules and systems, and make economic globalization more open, inclusive, balanced and beneficial for all. We should strengthen both hard connectivity of infrastructure and soft connectivity of institutions and rules, and develop four-dimensional connectivity of land, sea, air and the Internet.
Second, we need to uphold common development and promote fairness and inclusiveness.
Only when countries develop together can there be true development; only when countries prosper together can there be true prosperity. The COVID-19 pandemic has aggravated the wealth gap and widened the North-South divide. Uneven development must be addressed before broader prospects for humanity's common development could be brought about. We should leverage the enabling role of transport and increase related input in poor regions, so that local economies and people's lives could improve as a result of better roads. We should enhance North-South and South-South cooperation and scale up support for developing transport infrastructure in the least developed countries and landlocked developing countries, in an effort to achieve common prosperity.
Third, we need to uphold an innovation-driven approach and create more drivers for development.
Our world is going through a new round of scientific and technological revolution and industrial transformation. Digital economy, artificial intelligence and other new technologies and new business forms have become strong technological underpinnings for economic and social development. More should be done to develop smart transport and smart logistics and promote deep integration of new technologies like big data, the Internet, artificial intelligence and blockchain with the transport sector, to ensure easier movement of people and smoother flow of goods.
Fourth, we need to uphold ecological conservation as a priority and pursue green and low-carbon development.
The only durable way to achieve sustainable development is to establish an economic system for green and low-carbon development and promote green transition in all respects of economic and social development. More efforts are needed to foster a green and low-carbon way of transport, step up green infrastructural development, promote new energy, smart, digital and light-weight transport equipment, and encourage and advocate green travel, to make transport and travel more environment-friendly and low-carbon.
Fifth, we need to uphold multilateralism and improve global governance.
We live in a world where the future and destiny of countries are closely linked and their interests entwined like never before. We need to follow the vision of global governance featuring extensive consultation, joint contribution and shared benefits, pool the wisdom and strength of all, and mobilize resources from across the globe to meet global challenges and promote global development. We should uphold the authority and status of the United Nations and, in the context of implementing the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, advance cooperation in such areas as poverty reduction, health, transport and logistics, and infrastructural development.
Not long ago, I proposed a Global Development Initiative, which is designed to speed up the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, promote more robust, greener and more balanced global development, and build a global community of development with a shared future. I hope more will join the Initiative.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
Since the founding of New China, generation after generation of the Chinese people have worked in the spirit of opening roads through mountains and putting bridges over rivers, and turned China into a country with vast transport infrastructure. Today, we are redoubling our efforts to build a country with great transport strength. Convinced that transport should come first, we have built the world's largest high-speed railway network, expressway network and world-class port clusters. We have opened air and sea routes that reach all parts of the world. We have set up an integrated transport network exceeding six million kilometers. Convinced of the need for innovation, we have achieved major breakthroughs in equipment manufacturing like high-speed trains and large aircraft. We have more than half of the world's new energy vehicles. Mega transport projects like the Hong Kong-Zhuhai-Macao Bridge and Beijing Daxing International Airport have been completed and put into operation. Transport has become a frontier in China's modernization drive. Convinced of the importance of global connectivity, we have become the economy best connected to the global shipping network and with the highest volume of trade in goods. During the COVID-19 pandemic, the China-Europe Railway Express and ocean-going cargo vessels have been running day and night to keep global industrial and supply chains stable, showcasing China's sense of responsibility in the global community.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
China will continue to hold high the banner of true multilateralism, and stay connected with the world and abreast with the times. This way, we will contribute more to global development while pursuing our own development.
I wish to reiterate that China will not change course in its pursuit of a new system of open economy of higher standards, and China will not waver in its resolve to promote trade and investment liberalization and facilitation. China's door of opening-up will only open wider, and will never be closed.
China will continue to advance high-quality Belt and Road cooperation, strengthen infrastructure connectivity with other countries, and develop a green Silk Road and a digital Silk Road at a faster pace. Here I announce that China will set up a Global Innovation and Knowledge Center for Sustainable Transport, as a contribution to global transport development.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
Let us stick together on the promising path of connectivity and mutual benefit, jointly build an open, inclusive, clean and beautiful world that enjoys lasting peace, universal security and common prosperity, and promote the building of a community with a shared future for mankind.
Let me wish the Conference a full success."
"Keynote Speech by H.E. Xi Jinping
President of the People's Republic of China
At Leaders' Summit of the 15th Meeting of the Conference of the Parties
To the Convention on Biological Diversity
12 October 2021
Dear Colleagues,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
Good afternoon.
It gives me great pleasure to meet you virtually in Kunming and jointly attend the 15th meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity. On behalf of the government and people of China as well as in my own name, I wish to extend a warm welcome to all the distinguished guests.
As a Chinese saying goes, "All beings flourish when they live in harmony and receive nourishment from Nature." Biodiversity makes Earth full of vigor and vitality, and lays the foundation for human survival and development. Protecting biodiversity helps protect Earth, our common homeland, and contributes to humanity's sustainable development.
The Kunming conference, under the theme of "Ecological Civilization: Building a Shared Future for All Life on Earth", has great significance. It will work for the conclusion of the Post-2020 Global Biodiversity Framework, and identify targets and pathways for global biodiversity protection in the future. In this context, the international community must enhance cooperation, build consensus and pool strength to build a community of all life on Earth.
Man and Nature need to coexist in harmony. When we take care to protect Nature, Nature rewards us generously; when we exploit Nature ruthlessly, it punishes us without mercy. We need to have deep reverence for Nature, respect Nature, follow Nature's laws and protect Nature, so as to build a homeland of harmonious coexistence between man and Nature.
Green mountains are gold mountains and silver mountains. A sound ecology and environment is not just a natural asset, but also an economic asset, and it affects the potential and momentum of economic and social development. We need to speed up efforts to foster a green way of development and secure a win-win of economic growth and environmental protection, so as to build a homeland of coordinated advancement of economy and the environment.
The COVID-19 pandemic has cast a shadow over global development and compounded challenges to the UN's 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Faced with the dual tasks of economic recovery and environmental protection, developing countries need help and support all the more. We need to strengthen solidarity to overcome difficulties and let people across countries benefit more and in a fairer way from development outcomes and a sound environment, so as to build a homeland of common development of all countries.
We are living in an era both fraught with challenges and full of hopes. As long as we press ahead with perseverance, a bright future will beckon. For the sake of our common future, we need to join hands and start a new journey of high-quality development for humanity.
First, we shall take the development of ecological civilization as our guide to coordinate the relationship between man and Nature.
We need to solve the problems brought by industrial civilization, keep human activities within the limits of the ecology and environment, and carry out holistic conservation and systematic governance of mountains, rivers, forests, farmlands, lakes, grasslands and deserts.
Second, we shall let green transition drive our efforts to facilitate global sustainable development.
We need to build a green, low-carbon and circular economic system, translate ecological strengths into development strengths, and bring out the great benefit that green mountains and clear waters can offer. We also need to step up green international cooperation and share the fruits of green development among all countries.
Third, we shall concentrate on bettering people's well-being to promote social equity and justice.
We need to keep in mind the people's aspiration for a better life, pursue win-win results in environmental protection, economic development, job creation, poverty alleviation and other endeavors, and increase the sense of fulfillment, happiness and security of people in all countries.
Fourth, we shall take international law as the basis to uphold a fair and equitable international governance system.
We need to practice true multilateralism, and effectively honor and implement international rules, which are not to be exploited or discarded at one's own will. The new environmental protection targets we set need to be ambitious on the one hand and pragmatic and balanced on the other, so as to make the global environmental governance system fairer and more equitable.
Colleagues,
China has made remarkable progress in building an ecological civilization. The recent story of the northward travel and return of a group of elephants in Yunnan Province in southwestern China shows the vivid results of our endeavor to protect wild animals. China will continue to advance ecological progress, stay committed to implementing the new development philosophy emphasizing innovative, coordinated, green and open development for all, and build a beautiful China.
On this occasion, I wish to announce China's initiative to establish a Kunming Biodiversity Fund and take the lead by investing 1.5 billion RMB yuan to support biodiversity protection in developing countries. China also calls for and welcomes contributions from other parties to the fund.
To strengthen biodiversity protection, China is moving faster to establish a protected areas system with national parks as the mainstay. Over time, areas with the greatest importance to the natural ecosystem, and with the most unique natural landscapes, the most valuable natural heritage and the greatest biodiversity reserve will be included in the national parks system. China has officially designated its first group of national parks that includes the Three-River-Source National Park, the Giant Panda National Park, the Northeast China Tiger and Leopard National Park, the Hainan Tropical Forests National Park, and the Wuyishan National Park. The protected land area is 230,000 square kilometers and they cover nearly 30 percent of the key terrestrial wildlife species found in China. In the meantime, acting by the principle of striking a balance between on-site and translocation conservation, China has started building a system of national botanical gardens in places like Beijing and Guangzhou.
To achieve its carbon peak and neutrality targets, China will release implementation plans for peaking carbon dioxide emissions in key areas and sectors as well as a series of supporting measures, and will put in place a "1+N" policy framework for carbon peak and carbon neutrality. China will continue to readjust its industrial structure and energy mix, vigorously develop renewable energy, and make faster progress in planning and developing large wind power and photovoltaic bases in sandy areas, rocky areas and deserts. The first phase of projects with an installed capacity of approximately 100 million kilowatts have recently started construction in a smooth fashion.
Colleagues,
If we humanity do not fail Nature, Nature will not fail us. Ecological civilization represents the development trend of human civilization. Let us join hands, follow the philosophy of ecological civilization and shoulder our responsibility for future generations. Let us make joint efforts to build a community of all life on Earth, and a clean and beautiful world for us all."
"Statement by H.E. Xi Jinping
President of the People's Republic of China
At the General Debate of the 76th Session of
The United Nations General Assembly
21 September 2021
Mr. President,
The year 2021 is a truly remarkable one for the Chinese people. This year marks the centenary of the Communist Party of China. It is also the 50th anniversary of the restoration of the lawful seat of the People's Republic of China in the United Nations, a historic event which will be solemnly commemorated by China. We will continue our active efforts to take China's cooperation with the United Nations to a new level and make new and greater contributions to advancing the noble cause of the UN.
Mr. President,
A year ago, global leaders attended the high-level meetings marking the 75th anniversary of the UN and issued a declaration pledging to fight COVID-19 in solidarity, tackle challenges together, uphold multilateralism, strengthen the role of the UN, and work for the common future of present and coming generations.
One year on, our world is facing the combined impacts of changes unseen in a century and the COVID-19 pandemic. In all countries, people long for peace and development more than ever before, their call for equity and justice is growing stronger, and they are more determined in pursuing win-win cooperation.
Right now, COVID-19 is still raging in the world, and profound changes are taking place in human society. The world has entered a period of new turbulence and transformation. It falls on each and every responsible statesman to answer the questions of our times and make a historical choice with confidence, courage and a sense of mission.
First, we must beat COVID-19 and win this decisive fight crucial to the future of humanity.
The history of world civilization is also one of fighting pandemics. Rising to challenges, humanity has always emerged in triumph and achieved greater development and advancement. The current pandemic may appear overwhelming, but we humanity will surely overcome it and prevail.
We should always put people and their lives first, and care about the life, value and dignity of every individual. We need to respect science, take a science-based approach, and follow the laws of science. We need to both follow routine, targeted COVID-19 protocols and take emergency response measures, and both carry out epidemic control and promote economic and social development. We need to enhance coordinated global COVID-19 response and minimize the risk of cross-border virus transmission.
Vaccination is our powerful weapon against COVID-19. I have stressed on many occasions the need to make vaccines a global public good and ensure vaccine accessibility and affordability in developing countries. Of pressing priority is to ensure the fair and equitable distribution of vaccines globally. China will strive to provide a total of two billion doses of vaccines to the world by the end of this year. In addition to donating 100 million US dollars to COVAX, China will donate 100 million doses of vaccines to other developing countries in the course of this year. China will continue to support and engage in global science-based origins tracing, and stands firmly opposed to political maneuvering in whatever form.
Second, we must revitalize the economy and pursue more robust, greener and more balanced global development.
Development holds the key to people's well-being. Facing the severe shocks of COVID-19, we need to work together to steer global development toward a new stage of balanced, coordinated and inclusive growth. To this end, I would like to propose a Global Development Initiative.
- Staying committed to development as a priority.
We need to put development high on the global macro policy agenda, strengthen policy coordination among major economies, and ensure policy continuity, consistency and sustainability. We need to foster global development partnerships that are more equal and balanced, forge greater synergy among multilateral development cooperation processes, and speed up the implementation of the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
- Staying committed to a people-centered approach.
We should safeguard and improve people's livelihoods and protect and promote human rights through development, and make sure that development is for the people and by the people, and that its fruits are shared among the people. We should continue our work so that the people will have a greater sense of happiness, benefit and security, and achieve well-rounded development.
- Staying committed to benefits for all.
We should care about the special needs of developing countries. We may employ such means as debt suspension and development aid to help developing countries, particularly vulnerable ones facing exceptional difficulties, with emphasis on addressing unbalanced and inadequate development among and within countries.
- Staying committed to innovation-driven development.
We need to seize the historic opportunities created by the latest round of technological revolution and industrial transformation, redouble efforts to harness technological achievements to boost productivity, and foster an open, fair, equitable and non-discriminatory environment for the development of science and technology. We should foster new growth drivers in the post-COVID era and jointly achieve leapfrog development.
- Staying committed to harmony between man and nature.
We need to improve global environmental governance, actively respond to climate change and create a community of life for man and nature. We need to accelerate transition to a green and low-carbon economy and achieve green recovery and development. China will strive to peak carbon dioxide emissions before 2030 and achieve carbon neutrality before 2060. This requires tremendous hard work, and we will make every effort to meet these goals. China will step up support for other developing countries in developing green and low-carbon energy, and will not build new coal-fired power projects abroad.
-Staying committed to results-oriented actions.
We need to increase input in development, advance on a priority basis cooperation on poverty alleviation, food security, COVID-19 response and vaccines, development financing, climate change and green development, industrialization, digital economy and connectivity, among other areas, and accelerate implementation of the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, so as to build a global community of development with a shared future. China has pledged an additional three billion US dollars of international assistance in the next three years to support developing countries in responding to COVID-19 and promoting economic and social recovery.
Third, we must strengthen solidarity and promote mutual respect and win-win cooperation in conducting international relations.
A world of peace and development should embrace civilizations of various forms, and must accommodate diverse paths to modernization. Democracy is not a special right reserved to an individual country, but a right for the people of all countries to enjoy. Recent developments in the global situation show once again that military intervention from the outside and so-called democratic transformation entail nothing but harm. We need to advocate peace, development, equity, justice, democracy and freedom, which are the common values of humanity, and reject the practice of forming small circles or zero-sum games.
Differences and problems among countries, hardly avoidable, need to be handled through dialogue and cooperation on the basis of equality and mutual respect. One country's success does not have to mean another country's failure, and the world is big enough to accommodate common development and progress of all countries. We need to pursue dialogue and inclusiveness over confrontation and exclusion. We need to build a new type of international relations based on mutual respect, equity, justice and win-win cooperation, and do the best we can to expand the convergence of our interests and achieve the biggest synergy possible.
The Chinese people have always celebrated and striven to pursue the vision of peace, amity and harmony. China has never and will never invade or bully others, or seek hegemony. China is always a builder of world peace, contributor to global development, defender of the international order and provider of public goods. China will continue to bring the world new opportunities through its new development.
Fourth, we must improve global governance and practice true multilateralism.
In the world, there is only one international system, i.e. the international system with the United Nations at its core. There is only one international order, i.e. the international order underpinned by international law. And there is only one set of rules, i.e. the basic norms governing international relations underpinned by the purposes and principles of the UN Charter.
The UN should hold high the banner of true multilateralism and serve as the central platform for countries to jointly safeguard universal security, share development achievements and chart the course for the future of the world. The UN should stay committed to ensuring a stable international order, increasing the representation and say of developing countries in international affairs, and taking the lead in advancing democracy and rule of law in international relations. The UN should advance, in a balanced manner, work in all the three areas of security, development and human rights. It should set common agenda, highlight pressing issues and focus on real actions, and see to it that commitments made by all parties to multilateralism are truly delivered.
Mr. President,
The world is once again at a historical crossroads. I am convinced that the trend of peace, development and advancement for humanity is irresistible. Let us bolster confidence and jointly address global threats and challenges, and work together to build a community with a shared future for mankind and a better world for all."
"2 September 2021
Distinguished Guests,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Dear Friends,
Good evening. On behalf of the government and people of China and also in my own name, I wish to extend a warm welcome and cordial greetings to all the distinguished guests of the 2021 China International Fair for Trade in Services (CIFTIS).
This year's CIFITS is themed "Towards Digital Future and Service Driven Development". I believe that the active participation of you all will make this year's event a special and productive one.
Trade in services is a key component of international trade and an important area of economic and trade cooperation between countries. It has a big role to play in fostering a new development paradigm. We will work with all other parties to uphold openness, cooperation, mutual benefit and win-win, share opportunities in the growth of services trade, and promote world economic recovery and growth.
We will open up at a higher level, by implementing across the country a negative list for cross-border services trade and by exploring the development of national demonstration zones for the innovative development of trade in services. We will create more possibilities for cooperation, by scaling up support for the growth of the services sector in Belt and Road partner countries and by sharing China's technological achievements with the rest of the world. We will further improve rules for the services sector, by supporting Beijing and other localities in piloting the alignment of domestic rules with the ones in high-standard international free trade agreements and in building demonstration zones of digital trade. We will continue to support the innovation-driven development of small- and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), by deepening the reform of the New Third Board (National Equities Exchange and Quotations) and setting up a Beijing Stock Exchange as the primary platform serving innovation-oriented SMEs.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
Let us join hands to defeat the COVID-19 pandemic and get through these tough times. Using peace, development and win-win cooperation as the "golden key", we will be able to address the challenges facing the world economy and international trade and investment, and create a brighter future for all.
Thank you."
"Remarks by H.E. Xi Jinping
President of the People's Republic of China
At the Global Health Summit
21 May 2021
Your Excellency Prime Minister Mario Draghi,
Your Excellency President Ursula von der Leyen,
Dear Colleagues,
It gives me great pleasure to attend the Global Health Summit. Last year, the G20 successfully held an Extraordinary Leaders' Summit on COVID-19 and the Riyadh Summit. Many important common understandings were reached on promoting global solidarity against the virus and boosting world economic recovery.
The past year and more have seen repeated resurgence and frequent mutations of the coronavirus. The most serious pandemic in a century is still wreaking havoc. To clinch an early victory against COVID-19 and restore economic growth remains the top priority for the international community. G20 members need to shoulder responsibilities in global cooperation against the virus. In the meantime, we need to draw on experience both positive and otherwise, and lose no time in remedying deficiencies, closing loopholes and strengthening weak links in a bid to enhance preparedness and capacity for coping with major public health emergencies. Here, I want to make five points on what we need to do.
First, we must put people and their lives first.
The battle with COVID-19 is one for the people and by the people. What has happened proves that to completely defeat the virus, we must put people's lives and health front and center, demonstrate a great sense of political responsibility and courage, and make extraordinary responses to an extraordinary challenge. No effort must be spared to attend every case, save every patient, and truly respect the value and dignity of every human life. Meanwhile, it is also important to minimize the potential impact on people's life and maintain general order in our society.
Second, we must follow science-based policies and ensure a coordinated and systemic response.
Faced with this new infectious disease, we should advocate the spirit of science, adopt a science-based approach, and follow the law of science. The fight against COVID-19 is an all-out war that calls for a systemic response to coordinate pharmacological and non-pharmacological interventions, balance targeted routine COVID-19 protocols and emergency measures, and ensure both epidemic control and socio-economic development. G20 members need to adopt responsible macro-economic policies and step up coordination to keep the global industrial and supply chains safe and smooth. It is essential to give continued support by such means as debt suspension and development aid to developing countries, especially vulnerable countries facing exceptional difficulties.
Third, we must stick together and promote solidarity and cooperation.
The pandemic is yet another reminder that we humanity rise and fall together with a shared future. Confronted by a pandemic like COVID-19, we must champion the vision of building a global community of health for all, tide over this trying time through solidarity and cooperation, and firmly reject any attempt to politicize, label or stigmatize the virus. Political manipulation would not serve COVID-19 response on the domestic front. It would only disrupt international cooperation against the virus and bring greater harm to people around the world.
Fourth, we must uphold fairness and equity as we strive to close the immunization gap.
A year ago, I proposed that vaccines should be made a global public good. Today, the problem of uneven vaccination has become more acute. It is imperative for us to reject vaccine nationalism and find solutions to issues concerning the production capacity and distribution of vaccines, in order to make vaccines more accessible and affordable in developing countries. Major vaccine-developing and producing countries need to take up their responsibility to provide more vaccines to developing countries in urgent need, and they also need to support their businesses in joint research and authorized production with other countries having the relevant capacity. Multilateral financial institutions should provide inclusive financing support for vaccine procurement of developing countries. The World Health Organization (WHO) should speed up efforts under the COVID-19 Vaccine Global Access (COVAX) facility.
Fifth, we must address both the symptoms and root causes as we improve the governance system.
The pandemic is an extensive test of the global health governance system. It is important that we strengthen and leverage the role of the UN and the WHO and improve the global disease prevention and control system to better prevent and respond to future pandemics. It is important that we uphold the spirit of extensive consultation, joint contribution and shared benefits, fully heed the views of developing countries, and better reflect their legitimate concerns. It is also important that we enhance our capacity of monitoring, early-warning and emergency response, our capacity of treatment of major pandemics, of contingency reserve and logistics, of fighting disinformation, and of providing support to developing countries.
Colleagues,
In this unprecedented battle against the pandemic, China has, while receiving support and help from many countries, mounted a massive global humanitarian operation. At the 73rd World Health Assembly held in May last year, I announced five measures that China would take to support global anti-pandemic cooperation. Implementation of those measures is well underway. Notwithstanding the limited production capacity and enormous demand at home, China has honored its commitment by providing free vaccines to more than 80 developing countries in urgent need and exporting vaccines to 43 countries. We have provided 2 billion US dollars in assistance for the COVID-19 response and economic and social recovery in developing countries hit by the pandemic. We have sent medical supplies to more than 150 countries and 13 international organizations, providing more than 280 billion masks, 3.4 billion protective suits and 4 billion testing kits to the world. A cooperation mechanism has been established for Chinese hospitals to pair up with 41 African hospitals, and construction for the China-assisted project of the Africa CDC headquarters officially started at the end of last year. Important progress has also been made in the China-UN joint project to set up in China a global humanitarian response depot and hub. China is fully implementing the G20 Debt Service Suspension Initiative for Poorest Countries and has so far put off debt repayment exceeding 1.3 billion US dollars, the highest deferral amount among G20 members.
In continued support for global solidarity against COVID-19, I wish to announce the following:
- China will provide an additional 3 billion US dollars in international aid over the next three years to support COVID-19 response and economic and social recovery in other developing countries.
- Having already supplied 300 million doses of vaccines to the world, China will provide still more vaccines to the best of its ability.
- China supports its vaccine companies in transferring technologies to other developing countries and carrying out joint production with them.
- Having announced support for waiving intellectual property rights on COVID-19 vaccines, China also supports the World Trade Organization and other international institutions in making an early decision on this matter.
- China proposes setting up an international forum on vaccine cooperation for vaccine-developing and producing countries, companies and other stakeholders to explore ways of promoting fair and equitable distribution of vaccines around the world.
Colleagues,
The ancient Roman philosopher Seneca said, "We are all waves of the same sea." Let us join hands and stand shoulder to shoulder with each other to firmly advance international cooperation against COVID-19, build a global community of health for all, and work for a healthier and brighter future for humanity."
"Honorable President Joe Biden,
Honorable Colleagues,
It is a great pleasure to join you at the Leaders Summit on Climate on Earth Day. I wish to thank President Biden for the kind invitation. It is good to have this opportunity to have an in-depth exchange of views with you on climate change, and to discuss ways to tackle this challenge and find a path forward for man and Nature to live in harmony.
Since time of the industrial civilization, mankind has created massive material wealth. Yet, it has come at a cost of intensified exploitation of natural resources, which disrupted the balance in the Earth's ecosystem, and laid bare the growing tensions in the human-Nature relationship. In recent years, climate change, biodiversity loss, worsening desertification and frequent extreme weather events have all posed severe challenges to human survival and development. The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic has added difficulty to economic and social development across countries. Faced with unprecedented challenges in global environmental governance, the international community needs to come up with unprecedented ambition and action. We need to act with a sense of responsibility and unity, and work together to foster a community of life for man and Nature.
-
We must be committed to harmony between man and Nature.
"All things that grow live in harmony and benefit from the nourishment of Nature." Mother Nature is the cradle of all living beings, including humans. It provides everything essential for humanity to survive and thrive. Mother Nature has nourished us, and we must treat Nature as our root, respect it, protect it, and follow its laws. Failure to respect Nature or follow its laws will only invite its revenge. Systemic spoil of Nature will take away the foundation of human survival and development, and will leave us human beings like a river without a source and a tree without its roots. We should protect Nature and preserve the environment like we protect our eyes, and endeavor to foster a new relationship where man and Nature can both prosper and live in harmony.
-
We must be committed to green development.
Green mountains are gold mountains. To protect the environment is to protect productivity, and to improve the environment is to boost productivity - the truth is as simple as that. We must abandon development models that harm or undermine the environment, and must say no to shortsighted approaches of going after near-term development gains at the expense of the environment. Much to the contrary, we need to ride the trend of technological revolution and industrial transformation, seize the enormous opportunity in green transition, and let the power of innovation drive us to upgrade our economic, energy and industrial structures, and make sure that a sound environment is there to buttress sustainable economic and social development worldwide.
-
We must be committed to systemic governance.
Mountains, rivers, forests as well as farmlands, lakes, grasslands and deserts all make indivisible parts of the ecosystem. Protecting the ecosystem requires more than a simplistic, palliative approach. We need to follow the innate laws of the ecosystem and properly balance all elements and aspects of Nature. This is a way that may take us where we want to be, an ecosystem in sound circulation and overall balance.
-
We must be committed to a people-centered approach.
The environment concerns the well-being of people in all countries. We need to take into full account people's longing for a better life and a good environment as well as our responsibility for future generations. We need to look for ways to protect the environment, grow the economy, create jobs and remove poverty all at the same time, so as to deliver social equity and justice in the course of green transition and increase people's sense of benefit, happiness and security.
-
We must be committed to multilateralism.
We need to work on the basis of international law, follow the principle of equity and justice, and focus on effective actions. We need to uphold the UN-centered international system, comply with the objectives and principles laid out in the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and its Paris Agreement, and strive to deliver the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. We need to each take stronger actions, strengthen partnerships and cooperation, learn from each other and make common progress in the new journey toward global carbon neutrality. In this process, we must join hands, not point fingers at each other; we must maintain continuity, not reverse course easily; and we must honor commitments, not go back on promises.
China welcomes the United States' return to the multilateral climate governance process. Not long ago, the Chinese and US sides released a Joint Statement Addressing the Climate Crisis. China looks forward to working with the international community including the United States to jointly advance global environmental governance.
-
We must be committed to the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities.
The principle of common but differentiated responsibilities is the cornerstone of global climate governance. Developing countries now face multiple challenges to combat COVID-19, grow the economy, and address climate change. We need to give full recognition to developing countries' contribution to climate action and accommodate their particular difficulties and concerns. Developed countries need to increase climate ambition and action. At the same time, they need to make concrete efforts to help developing countries strengthen the capacity and resilience against climate change, support them in financing, technology, and capacity building, and refrain from creating green trade barriers, so as to help developing countries accelerate the transition to green and low-carbon development.
Colleagues,
The Chinese civilization has always valued harmony between man and Nature as well as observance of the laws of Nature. It has been our constant pursuit that man and Nature could live in harmony with each other. Ecological advancement and conservation have been written into China's Constitution and incorporated into China's overall plan for building socialism with Chinese characteristics. China will follow the Thought on Ecological Civilization and implement the new development philosophy. We will aim to achieve greener economic and social development in all aspects, with a special focus on developing green and low-carbon energy. We will continue to prioritize ecological conservation and pursue a green and low-carbon path to development.
Last year, I made the official announcement that China will strive to peak carbon dioxide emissions before 2030 and achieve carbon neutrality before 2060. This major strategic decision is made based on our sense of responsibility to build a community with a shared future for mankind and our own need to secure sustainable development. China has committed to move from carbon peak to carbon neutrality in a much shorter time span than what might take many developed countries, and that requires extraordinarily hard efforts from China. The targets of carbon peak and carbon neutrality have been added to China's overall plan for ecological conservation. We are now making an action plan and are already taking strong nationwide actions toward carbon peak. Support is being given to peaking pioneers from localities, sectors and companies. China will strictly control coal-fired power generation projects, and strictly limit the increase in coal consumption over the 14th Five-Year Plan period and phase it down in the 15th Five-Year Plan period. Moreover, China has decided to accept the Kigali Amendment to the Montreal Protocol and tighten regulations over non-carbon dioxide emissions. China's national carbon market will also start trading.
As a participant, contributor and trailblazer in global ecological conservation, China is firmly committed to putting multilateralism into action and promoting a fair and equitable system of global environmental governance for win-win cooperation. China will host COP15 to the Convention on Biological Diversity this October and looks forward to working with all parties to enhance global governance on biodiversity. We support COP26 to the UNFCCC in achieving positive outcomes. As we in China often say, "It is more important to show people how to fish than just giving them fish." China has done its best to help developing countries build capacity against climate change through various forms of results-oriented South-South cooperation. From remote sensing satellites for climate monitoring in Africa to low-carbon demonstration zones in Southeast Asia and to energy-efficient lights in small island countries, such cooperation has yielded real, tangible and solid results. China has also made ecological cooperation a key part of Belt and Road cooperation. A number of green action initiatives have been launched, covering wide-ranging efforts in green infrastructure, green energy, green transport and green finance, to bring enduring benefits to the people of all Belt and Road partner countries.
Colleagues,
As we say in China, "When people pull together, nothing is too heavy to be lifted." Climate change poses pressing, formidable and long-term challenges to us all. Yet I am confident that as long as we unite in our purposes and efforts and work together with solidarity and mutual assistance, we will rise above the global climate and environment challenges and leave a clean and beautiful world to future generations.
Thank you."
"Keynote Speech by H.E. Xi Jinping
President of the People's Republic of China
At the Boao Forum for Asia Annual Conference 2021
20 April 2021
Your Excellencies Heads of State and Government,
Your Excellencies Heads of International Organizations,
Your Excellencies Members of the Board of Directors of the Boao Forum for Asia,
Distinguished Guests,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Dear Friends,
"True friendship brings people close however far apart they may be." It gives me great pleasure to attend the Boao Forum for Asia Annual Conference 2021 and meet you all in this cloud meeting. Let me begin by extending, on behalf of the Chinese government and people and also in my own name, a warm welcome to all the guests participating both in person and online, and cordial greetings and best wishes to all friends old and new.
This year marks the 20th anniversary of the Boao Forum. Over these two decades, Asian countries have advanced regional economic integration and worked in unison to pursue both economic and social development, which has turned Asia into the most vibrant and promising region in the global economy. Asia has also stood with the rest of the world in the face of terrorism, the Indian Ocean tsunami, the international financial crisis, COVID-19 and other traditional and non-traditional security threats, which has helped maintain stability and security in the region. As an important member of the Asian family, China has kept deepening reform and opening-up while promoting regional cooperation, thus achieving progress and development in tandem with the rest of Asia and the world. It is fair to say that this Forum has borne witness to the extraordinary journey of China, of Asia and of the world, and has exerted a significant influence in boosting development in Asia and beyond.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
This year's annual conference is convened against a very special background. The theme of the conference-"A World in Change: Join Hands to Strengthen Global Governance and Advance Belt and Road Cooperation"-is most opportune and relevant under the current circumstances.
Now, the combined forces of changes and a pandemic both unseen in a century have brought the world into a phase of fluidity and transformation. Instability and uncertainty are clearly on the rise. Humanity is facing growing governance deficit, trust deficit, development deficit, and peace deficit. Much remains to be done to achieve universal security and common development. That said, there is no fundamental change in the trend toward a multi-polar world; economic globalization is showing renewed resilience; and the call for upholding multilateralism and enhancing communication and coordination has grown stronger. While we live in an age rife with challenges, it is also an age full of hope.
Where should humanity go from here? What kind of future should we create for future generations? As we try to answer these important questions, it is crucial that we bear in mind the shared interests of mankind and make responsible and wise choices.
China calls on all countries in Asia and beyond to answer the call of our times, defeat the pandemic through solidarity, strengthen global governance, and keep pursuing a community with a shared future for mankind.
- We need consultation on an equal footing to create a future of shared benefits
. Global governance should reflect the evolving political and economic landscape in the world, conform to the historical trend of peace, development and win-win cooperation, and meet the practical needs in addressing global challenges. We need to follow the principles of extensive consultation, joint contribution and shared benefits, uphold true multilateralism, and make the global governance system more fair and equitable. We need to safeguard the UN-centered international system, preserve the international order underpinned by international law, and uphold the multilateral trading system with the World Trade Organization at its core. World affairs should be handled through extensive consultation, and the future of the world should be decided by all countries working together. We must not let the rules set by one or a few countries be imposed on others, or allow unilateralism pursued by certain countries to set the pace for the whole world. What we need in today's world is justice, not hegemony. Big countries should behave in a manner befitting their status and with a greater sense of responsibility.
- We need openness and innovation to create a future of development and prosperity.
Openness is essential for development and progress. It also holds the key to post-COVID economic recovery. We need to promote trade and investment liberalization and facilitation, deepen regional economic integration, and enhance supply, industrial, data and human resources chains, with a view to building an open world economy. We need to deepen partnerships for connectivity and strengthen infrastructural links to keep the arteries of economic activities unclogged. We must seize the historical opportunities in a new round of scientific and technological revolution and industrial transformation, boost the digital economy, and step up exchanges and cooperation in such areas as artificial intelligence, biomedicine and modern energy, so that the fruits of scientific and technological innovation can be turned into greater benefits for people in all countries. In this age of economic globalization, openness and integration is an unstoppable historical trend. Attempts to "erect walls" or "decouple" run counter to the law of economics and market principles. They would hurt others' interests without benefiting oneself.
- We need solidarity and cooperation to create a future of health and security.
In the ongoing fight against COVID-19, victory will be ours at the end of the day. We must put people and their lives above anything else, scale up information sharing and collective efforts, enhance public health and medical cooperation, and give full play to the key role of the World Health Organization (WHO). It is important that we bolster international cooperation on the R&D, production and distribution of vaccines and increase their accessibility and affordability in developing countries so that everyone in the world can access and afford the vaccines they need. It is also important that we take comprehensive measures to improve global governance on public health security and work together for a global community of health for all. We need to follow the philosophy of green development, advance international cooperation on climate change, and do more to implement the Paris Agreement on climate change. The principle of common but differentiated responsibilities must be upheld, and concerns of developing countries on capital, technology and capacity building must be addressed.
- We need commitment to justice to create a future of mutual respect and mutual learning.
Diversity is what defines our world and makes human civilization fascinating. The COVID-19 pandemic has made it all the more clear to people around the world that we must reject the cold-war and zero-sum mentality and oppose a new "Cold War" and ideological confrontation in whatever forms. In state-to-state relations, the principles of equality, mutual respect and mutual trust must be put front and center. Bossing others around or meddling in others' internal affairs would not get one any support. We must advocate peace, development, equity, justice, democracy and freedom, which are common values of humanity, and encourage exchanges and mutual learning among civilizations to promote the progress of human civilization.
In this context, I would like to announce that once the pandemic gets under control, China will host the second Conference on Dialogue of Asian Civilizations as part of our active efforts to promote inter-civilization dialogue in Asia and beyond.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
I have noted on various occasions that the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) is a public road open to all, not a private path owned by one single party. All interested countries are welcome aboard to take part in the cooperation and share in its benefits. Belt and Road cooperation pursues development, aims at mutual benefits, and conveys a message of hope.
Going forward, we will continue to work with other parties in high-quality Belt and Road cooperation. We will follow the principles of extensive consultation, joint contribution and shared benefits, and champion the philosophy of open, green and clean cooperation, in a bid to make Belt and Road cooperation high-standard, people-centered and sustainable.
- We will build a closer partnership for health cooperation.
Chinese businesses have already started joint vaccine production in BRI participating countries such as Indonesia, Brazil, the United Arab Emirates, Malaysia, Pakistan and Turkey. We will expand cooperation with various parties in infectious disease control, public health, traditional medicine and other areas to jointly protect the lives and health of people in all countries.
- We will build a closer partnership for connectivity.
China will work with all sides to promote "hard connectivity" of infrastructure and "soft connectivity" of rules and standards, ensure unimpeded channels for trade and investment cooperation, and actively develop Silk Road e-commerce, all in a bid to open up a bright prospect for integrated development.
- We will build a closer partnership for green development.
We could strengthen cooperation on green infrastructure, green energy and green finance, and improve the BRI International Green Development Coalition, the Green Investment Principles for the Belt and Road Development, and other multilateral cooperation platforms to make green a defining feature of Belt and Road cooperation.
- We will build a closer partnership for openness and inclusiveness.
A World Bank report suggests that by 2030, Belt and Road projects could help lift 7.6 million people from extreme poverty and 32 million people from moderate poverty across the world. We will act in the spirit of openness and inclusiveness as we work with all willing participants to build the BRI into a pathway to poverty alleviation and growth, which will contribute positively to the common prosperity of humankind.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
The year 2021 marks the centenary of the Communist Party of China (CPC). Over the last century, the CPC has striven forward against all odds in a relentless pursuit of happiness for the Chinese people, rejuvenation for the Chinese nation, and the common good for the world. As a result, the Chinese nation has achieved a great transformation from standing up to growing rich, and to becoming stronger, and has thus made a notable contribution to human civilization and progress. China will continue to play its part in building world peace, promoting global development, and defending international order.
China will stay committed to peace, development, cooperation and mutual benefit, develop friendship and cooperation with other countries on the basis of the Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence, and promote a new type of international relations. China will continue to carry out anti-COVID cooperation with the WHO and other countries, honor its commitment of making vaccines a global public good, and do more to help developing countries defeat the virus. However strong it may grow, China will never seek hegemony, expansion, or a sphere of influence. Nor will China ever engage in an arms race. China will take an active part in multilateral cooperation on trade and investment, fully implement the Foreign Investment Law and its supporting rules and regulations, cut further the negative list on foreign investment, continue to develop the Hainan Free Trade Port, and develop new systems for a higher-standard open economy. All are welcome to share in the vast opportunities of the Chinese market.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
"By setting sail together, we could ride the wind, break the waves, and brave the journey of ten thousand miles." We may at times encounter stormy waves and dangerous rapids, but as long as we pool our efforts and keep to the right direction, the giant vessel of human development will stay on an even keel and sail toward a brighter future.
Thank you."
"Special Address by H.E. Xi Jinping
President of the People's Republic of China
At the World Economic Forum Virtual Event of the Davos Agenda
25 January 2021
Professor Klaus Schwab,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
The past year was marked by the sudden onslaught of the COVID-19 pandemic. Global public health faced severe threat and the world economy was mired in deep recession. Humanity encountered multiple crises rarely seen in human history.
The past year also bore witness to the enormous resolve and courage of people around the world in battling the deadly coronavirus. Guided by science, reason and a humanitarian spirit, the world has achieved initial progress in fighting COVID-19. That said, the pandemic is far from over. The recent resurgence in COVID cases reminds us that we must carry on the fight. Yet we remain convinced that winter cannot stop the arrival of spring and darkness can never shroud the light of dawn. There is no doubt that humanity will prevail over the virus and emerge even stronger from this disaster.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
History is moving forward and the world will not go back to what it was in the past. Every choice and move we make today will shape the world of the future. It is important that we properly address the four major tasks facing people of our times.
The first is to step up macroeconomic policy coordination and jointly promote strong, sustainable, balanced and inclusive growth of the world economy.
We are going through the worst recession since the end of World War II. For the first time in history, the economies of all regions have been hit hard at the same time, with global industrial and supply chains clogged and trade and investment down in the doldrums. Despite the trillions of dollars in relief packages worldwide, global recovery is rather shaky and the outlook remains uncertain. We need to focus on current priorities, and balance COVID response and economic development. Macroeconomic policy support should be stepped up to bring the world economy out of the woods as early as possible. More importantly, we need to look beyond the horizon and strengthen our will and resolve for change. We need to shift the driving forces and growth models of the global economy and improve its structure, so as to set the course for long-term, sound and steady development of the world economy.
The second is to abandon ideological prejudice and jointly follow a path of peaceful coexistence, mutual benefit and win-win cooperation.
No two leaves in the world are identical, and no histories, cultures or social systems are the same. Each country is unique with its own history, culture and social system, and none is superior to the other. The best criteria are whether a country's history, culture and social system fit its particular situation, enjoy people's support, serve to deliver political stability, social progress and better lives, and contribute to human progress. The different histories, cultures and social systems are as old as human societies, and they are the inherent features of human civilization. There will be no human civilization without diversity, and such diversity will continue to exist for as long as we can imagine. Difference in itself is no cause for alarm. What does ring the alarm is arrogance, prejudice and hatred; it is the attempt to impose hierarchy on human civilization or to force one's own history, culture and social system upon others. The right choice is for countries to pursue peaceful coexistence based on mutual respect and on expanding common ground while shelving differences, and to promote exchanges and mutual learning. This is the way to add impetus to the progress of human civilization.
The third is to close the divide between developed and developing countries and jointly bring about growth and prosperity for all.
Today, inequality continues to grow, the North-South gap remains to be bridged, and sustainable development faces severe challenges. As countries grapple with the pandemic, their economic recoveries are following divergent trajectories, and the North-South gap risks further widening and even perpetuation. For developing countries, they are aspiring for more resources and space for development, and they are calling for stronger representation and voice in global economic governance. We should recognize that with the growth of developing countries, global prosperity and stability will be put on a more solid footing, and developed countries will stand to benefit from such growth. The international community should keep its eyes on the long run, honor its commitment, and provide necessary support to developing countries and safeguard their legitimate development interests. Equal rights, equal opportunities and equal rules should be strengthened, so that all countries will benefit from the opportunities and fruits of development.
The fourth is to come together against global challenges and jointly create a better future for humanity.
In the era of economic globalization, public health emergencies like COVID-19 may very well recur, and global public health governance needs to be enhanced. The Earth is our one and only home. To scale up efforts to address climate change and promote sustainable development bears on the future of humanity. No global problem can be solved by any one country alone. There must be global action, global response and global cooperation.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
The problems facing the world are intricate and complex. The way out of them is through upholding multilateralism and building a community with a shared future for mankind.
First, we should stay committed to openness and inclusiveness instead of closeness and exclusion.
Multilateralism is about having international affairs addressed through consultation and the future of the world decided by everyone working together. To build small circles or start a new Cold War, to reject, threaten or intimidate others, to willfully impose decoupling, supply disruption or sanctions, and to create isolation or estrangement will only push the world into division and even confrontation. We cannot tackle common challenges in a divided world, and confrontation will lead us to a dead end. Humanity has learned lessons the hard way, and that history is not long gone. We must not return to the path of the past.
The right approach is to act on the vision of a community with a shared future for mankind. We should uphold the common values of humanity, i.e. peace, development, equity, justice, democracy and freedom, rise above ideological prejudice, make the mechanisms, principles and policies of our cooperation as open and inclusive as possible, and jointly safeguard world peace and stability. We should build an open world economy, uphold the multilateral trading regime, discard discriminatory and exclusionary standards, rules and systems, and take down barriers to trade, investment and technological exchanges. We should strengthen the G20 as the premier forum for global economic governance, engage in closer macroeconomic policy coordination, and keep the global industrial and supply chains stable and open. We should ensure the sound operation of the global financial system, promote structural reform and expand global aggregate demand in an effort to strive for higher quality and stronger resilience in global economic development.
Second, we should stay committed to international law and international rules instead of seeking one's own supremacy.
Ancient Chinese believed that "the law is the very foundation of governance". International governance should be based on the rules and consensus reached among us, not on the order given by one or the few. The Charter of the United Nations is the basic and universally recognized norms governing state-to-state relations. Without international law and international rules that are formed and recognized by the global community, the world may fall back to the law of the jungle, and the consequence would be devastating for humanity.
We need to be resolute in championing the international rule of law, and steadfast in our resolve to safeguard the international system centered around the UN and the international order based on international law. Multilateral institutions, which provide the platforms for putting multilateralism into action and which are the basic architecture underpinning multilateralism, should have their authority and effectiveness safeguarded. State-to-state relations should be coordinated and regulated through proper institutions and rules. The strong should not bully the weak. Decision should not be made by simply showing off strong muscles or waving a big fist. Multilateralism should not be used as pretext for acts of unilateralism. Principles should be preserved and rules, once made, should be followed by all. "Selective multilateralism" should not be our option.
Third, we should stay committed to consultation and cooperation instead of conflict and confrontation.
Differences in history, culture and social system should not be an excuse for antagonism or confrontation, but rather an incentive for cooperation. We should respect and accommodate differences, avoid meddling in other countries' internal affairs, and resolve disagreements through consultation and dialogue. History and reality have made it clear, time and again, that the misguided approach of antagonism and confrontation, be it in the form of cold war, hot war, trade war or tech war, would eventually hurt all countries' interests and undermine everyone's well-being.
We should reject the outdated Cold War and zero-sum game mentality, adhere to mutual respect and accommodation, and enhance political trust through strategic communication. It is important that we stick to the cooperation concept based on mutual benefit, say no to narrow-minded, selfish beggar-thy-neighbor policies, and stop unilateral practice of keeping advantages in development all to oneself. Equal rights to development should be guaranteed for all countries to promote common development and prosperity. We should advocate fair competition, like competing with each other for excellence in a racing field, not beating each other on a wrestling arena.
Fourth, we should stay committed to keeping up with the times instead of rejecting change.
The world is undergoing changes unseen in a century, and now is the time for major development and major transformation. To uphold multilateralism in the 21st century, we should promote its fine tradition, take on new perspectives and look to the future. We need to stand by the core values and basic principles of multilateralism. We also need to adapt to the changing international landscape and respond to global challenges as they arise. We need to reform and improve the global governance system on the basis of extensive consultation and consensus-building.
We need to give full play to the role of the World Health Organization in building a global community of health for all. We need to advance reform of the World Trade Organization and the international financial and monetary system in a way that boosts global economic growth and protects the development rights, interests and opportunities of developing countries. We need to follow a people-centered and fact-based policy orientation in exploring and formulating rules on global digital governance. We need to deliver on the Paris Agreement on climate change and promote green development. We need to give continued priority to development, implement the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, and make sure that all countries, especially developing ones, share in the fruits of global development.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
After decades of strenuous efforts by the Chinese people, China is on course to finish building a moderately prosperous society in all respects. We have made historic gains in ending extreme poverty, and have embarked on a new journey toward fully building a modern socialist country. As China enters a new development stage, we will follow a new development philosophy and foster a new development paradigm with domestic circulation as the mainstay and domestic and international circulations reinforcing each other. China will work with other countries to build an open, inclusive, clean and beautiful world that enjoys lasting peace, universal security and common prosperity.
- China will continue to take an active part in international cooperation on COVID-19.
Containing the coronavirus is the most pressing task for the international community. This is because people and their lives must always be put before anything else. It is also what it takes to stabilize and revive the economy. Closer solidarity and cooperation, more information sharing, and a stronger global response are what we need to defeat COVID-19 across the world. It is especially important to scale up cooperation on the R&D, production and distribution of vaccines and make them public goods that are truly accessible and affordable to people in all countries. By now, China has provided assistance to over 150 countries and 13 international organizations, sent 36 medical expert teams to countries in need, and stayed strongly supportive and actively engaged in international cooperation on COVID vaccines. China will continue to share its experience with other countries, do its best to assist countries and regions that are less prepared for the pandemic, and work for greater accessibility and affordability of COVID vaccines in developing countries. We hope these efforts will contribute to an early and complete victory over the coronavirus throughout the world.
- China will continue to implement a win-win strategy of opening-up.
Economic globalization meets the need of growing social productivity and is a natural outcome of scientific and technological advancement. It serves no one's interest to use the pandemic as an excuse to reverse globalization and go for seclusion and decoupling. As a longstanding supporter of economic globalization, China is committed to following through on its fundamental policy of opening-up. China will continue to promote trade and investment liberalization and facilitation, help keep the global industrial and supply chains smooth and stable, and advance high-quality Belt and Road cooperation. China will promote institutional opening-up that covers rules, regulations, management and standards. We will foster a business environment that is based on market principles, governed by law and up to international standards, and unleash the potential of the huge China market and enormous domestic demand. We hope these efforts will bring more cooperation opportunities to other countries and give further impetus to global economic recovery and growth.
- China will continue to promote sustainable development.
China will fully implement the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. It will do more on the ecological front, by transforming and improving its industrial structure and energy mix at a faster pace and promoting a green, low-carbon way of life and production. I have announced China's goal of striving to peak carbon dioxide emissions before 2030 and achieve carbon neutrality before 2060. Meeting these targets will require tremendous hard work from China. Yet we believe that when the interests of the entire humanity are at stake, China must step forward, take action, and get the job done. China is drawing up action plans and taking specific measures already to make sure we meet the set targets. We are doing this as a concrete action to uphold multilateralism and as a contribution to protecting our shared home and realizing sustainable development of humanity.
- China will continue to advance science, technology and innovation.
Science, technology and innovation is a key engine for human progress, a powerful weapon in tackling many global challenges, and the only way for China to foster a new development paradigm and achieve high-quality development. China will invest more in science and technology, develop an enabling system for innovation as a priority, turn breakthroughs in science and technology into actual productivity at a faster pace, and enhance intellectual property protection, all for the purpose of fostering innovation-driven, higher-quality growth. Scientific and technological advances should benefit all humanity rather than be used to curb and contain other countries' development. China will think and act with more openness with regard to international exchange and cooperation on science and technology. We will work with other countries to create an open, fair, equitable and non-discriminatory environment for scientific and technological advancement that is beneficial to all and shared by all.
- China will continue to promote a new type of international relations.
Zero-sum game or winner-takes-all is not the guiding philosophy of the Chinese people. As a staunch follower of an independent foreign policy of peace, China is working hard to bridge differences through dialogue and resolve disputes through negotiation and to pursue friendly and cooperative relations with other countries on the basis of mutual respect, equality and mutual benefit. As a steadfast member of developing countries, China will further deepen South-South cooperation, and contribute to the endeavor of developing countries to eradicate poverty, ease debt burden, and achieve more growth. China will get more actively engaged in global economic governance and push for an economic globalization that is more open, inclusive, balanced and beneficial to all.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Friends,
There is only one Earth and one shared future for humanity. As we cope with the current crisis and endeavor to make a better day for everyone, we need to stand united and work together. We have been shown time and again that to beggar thy neighbor, to go it alone, and to slip into arrogant isolation will always fail. Let us all join hands and let multilateralism light our way toward a community with a shared future for mankind.
Thank you."